GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MYRON E. SMITH
Grand M aster
O ctober 15, 1965 - October H . 1966

MYRON ENGLISH SMITH
.
Grand Master October 15, 1965 - October 14, 1966
Masons
of
Master
Grand
OOth
1
the
that
It seems most appropriate
in California should be a man of unusual capabilities and energy. the
recognition of which continues to move him up the ladder of success
wherever he devotes his many talents.
Myron English Smith was born in Dixon, Illinois, on December 2,
1906, where he lived until completing . his public school education in
North Dixon High School. He then turned west to attend the Unive.r~
sity of California at Los Angeles where he became an active member
of the Debating Team while earning his B.A. degree which he received
in 1929. Law School then beckoned him and after studying at the Law
Schools of Stanford University and the University of Southern Califo.r~
.
nia, received his LL.B. degree from the latter in 1932.
After passing the State Bar the same year. he entered private practice
for two years. It was inevitable, howev~r. that his ability was soon to
attract the attention of corporation officials. and in 1934 he joined the
staff of the Union Oil Company in Los Angeles, and he today is the
Treasury Attorney of that great California corporation.
In 1934 he was married to the gracious and charming Katherine
Joplin, who endeared herself to all as the First Masonic Lady in Cali~
fornia during the Grand Lodge year. They have an ideal family-two
boys, Myron English Smith, Jr., and Gregory Newcomb Smith, and a
daughter, Sandra Kay Smith. Myron, Jr., a Mason, is serving in the
U.S. Navy in the Asian theatre of activity, while Gregory. very recently
raised by his Grand Master father in his father's lodge, is completing his
education at U .S.C. Sandra is completing her senior year in Pasadena
High School. They have an equally ideal family home in the foothills
of Sierra Madre, a suburb of Los Angeles.
Grand M aster Smith was raised in University Lodge No. 394 in
Los Angeles (now in Torrance) on July 23, 1928. His devotion to the
ideals of Masonry, soon recognized by his brethren. resulted in his being
elected Worshipful Master in 1941. He also served as a member of the
Board of Trustees of the Los Angeles Board of Relief from 1941-1943.
Grand Lodge, too, soon became aware of the many capabilities of this
most genial brother and he was soon active on important Grand Lodge
Boards, serving for three years on the Board of Directors of the UCLA
Masonic Clubhouse, 1947-50, and for nine years (the constitutional
limit) on the Board of Directors of the Masonic Homes of California,
1949~58, the last four years serving as Vice President. In 1961 he was
appointed Grand Orator and his remarkable ability as a fluent and
thought-provoking speaker immediately brought him acclaim throughout
the jurisdiction. It was not surprising, therefore, that the brethren elected
him as Junior Grand Warden in 1962 and that he progressed through
the chairs to become our 1OOth Grand Master in October, 1965.
In addition to these many Masonic activities, Myron is also a very

2

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Los Anactive Scottis h Rite Mason , having receive d his degree s in the
leadtaken
has
and
t
ritualis
a
as
lled
unexce
is
He
geles Bodies in 1944.
,
acumen
s
busines
keen
his
of
reason
By
s.
degree
the
of
many
in
ing parts
the
of
nt
Preside
and
he is also Treasu rer of the Los Angele s Bodies
natura l
Scottis h Rite Cathed ral Associa tion of Los Angele s. It was only
33°
the
with
ted
corone
be
to
r
brothe
affable
and
e
for this tireless , capabl
honor.
t
highes
s
zation'
organi
this
1954,
y
in Januar
ReOur brothe r is also a Charte r membe r of Southe rn Califor nia
of
Legion
ary
Honor
lay
DeMo
the
search Lodge and has been awarde d
Honor .
One might natura lly assume that anyone leading such an active
Myron ,
Mason ic life might have little or no time for church activiti es.
.
Church
dist
Metho
the
of
r
howeve r. has always been an active membe
dist
Metho
Madre
Sierra
the
Since 1953 he has been identified with
an of
Church where he was for six years the Lay Leader and Chairm
es.
Truste
of
Board
the
of
nt
Preside
Vice
now
is
and
the Official Board
field
the
in
es
On many occasio ns he has occupi ed the pulpit. His activiti
also for
of Metho dism are not confine d to his own church , for he was
and has
Union,
t
Distric
dist
Metho
four years Presid ent of the Pasade na
Homes
Pacific
of
Board
ate
Corpor
the
of
r
been for three years a membe
also a
is
He
.
elderly
the
for
homes
dist
Metho
ng
Corpor ation, operati
membe r of the Metho dist Hospit al Board in Arcadi a.
enCivic affairs entirel y unrelat ed to M asonry or the church also
a
been
has
he
years
many
for
and
on
gaged this active brothe r's attenti
Board.
that
of
ent
Presid
Past
a
is
and
n
Missio
ht
Directo r of the Midnig
to the
One of the most recent honors to come to him was his election
y
vacanc
the
fill
to
Board of Regent s of Forest Lawn Memor ial Park
Chanmid,
KleinS
von
B.
created by the passing of Brothe r Dr. Rufus
the
cellor of the Univer sity of Southe rn Ca lifornia , indicat ing again
all.
by
held
is
esteem in which he
and
The office of Grand Master is an increas ingly deman ding one
nia
Califor
realize.
require s more of the brothe r so honore d than most
.
served
have
who
men
the
of
has been fortuna te indeed in the caliber
among
leader
a
is
Smith
.
E
Myron
that
It cannot be ga insaid, ho wever,
always
his peers. He is unsurp assed as a friendl y. kindly brothe r who
. He has
stances
circum
trying
most
the
under
us
courteo
be
to
time
takes
ined
a quick smile and a keen sense of humor. but he can also be a determ
fighter when the occasion require s.
year
His superb handlin g of the affairs of Grand Lodge during a
eviample
gives
ons
conditi
l
unusua
and
s
problem
many
fraugh t with
year.
past
dence tha t he was the right man in the right place during the
His leaders hip was an inspira tion to all his brethre n.
also
Myron Smith never has a bad word to say of anyone , and it is
praises
His
.
Myron
true that no one ever has a bad word to say about
stateare sung throug hout the jurisdic tion, and one continu ally hears the
an
Christi
real
a
is
There
"
n,
affectio
and
ment, said with true admira tion
.
service
d
devote
his
for
ful
te
gra
is
Lodge
gentlem an. " Grand

3

D H . SIEMS, Grand Secret ary of the M . · . W . · . G ran d
I. EDWAR
F

Lod

do
ge of .ree and Accept ed Mason s of the State of Califor nia,
ithful
fa
and
true
a
contain
pages
hereby . certify that the following
eenth
transcript of the proceedings of tha t body at its one hundred sevent
·
p
Sa
of
n ranc1sco, on
Annua l Comm unicati on, comme nced at the city
ated on Friday
termin
and
5966,
L.
.
A
r,
Monda y, the 10th day of Octobe
'
5966.
L.
A.
r,
Octobe
the 14th day of

I have hereun to a ppende d my
official signatu re and have affixed
the seal of the M: .W:. G rand
Lodge of Free and A ccepted
Mason s of the State of C alifornia, at the office of the Grand Secretary, this third day of November, in the y ear of Light, five
thousa nd nine hundre d and sixtysix.

Grand Secreta ry

5

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PR OCEE DING S

of

THE M:.W :.GR AND LODGE
of

111rrr attlt Arr.ept.elt ~usnn.a
OP THE
STATE OF CALIF ORNIA
AT ITS
117TH AN N UAL COMM UNICA TION
HELD AT THE
CITY OF SAN FRANC ISCO
COMME NCING ON
MONDAY, O CTOBER ] 0 A.O. ] 966, A.L. 5966
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1i A.O. 1966, A.L. 5966
Copyrigh t 191>6 by Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Co lifo rnio
Printe d in the United Stoles of Ame ric o. All rights in t his book ore reserved.
N o pa rt th ereof ma y be re p roduced in nny manne r whie tso ever

without written

ma y
perminion from t he Grond Lodge of Co \iiornio, except thot q uotations
been
be e mbodied in revie ws by such other G rond Jurisd ictions os hove
Grand
re cog nized offic ia lly by th is G ro nd Lod9e. Fo r info rmation odd re"
Secre t a ry, ll 11 California St reet, Son Fra ncisco, Colifornio 91108.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

7

ONE HUND RED SEVEN TEENT H
ANNU AL COMM UNICA TION
The Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of Californ ia commenced its One Hundred Seventee nth
Annual Commun ication in the Californ ia Masonic Memoria l Temple on
October 10, A. L. 5966, at 10:00 A.M. Grand Lodge was raised by
Worship ful Wilbur A. Tully, Master of Universi ty Lodge No. 394.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following :
0FPICER S OF THE GRAND LoDGE
M.·.w.·.M YRON E . SMITH ...........•.. .......... ......... ...........••. ...Grand
M aster
R.".W.' . LAUREN CE E . DAYTON •.....•....... .....•...•... Deputy Grand
Master

R. ·. W. · .JOHN F . PoRTBR.. ..•........... .............. ... .... ..Senior Grand Warden
R. ·. W. ·.EUGEN E S. HOPP.............. .----·-····-----·······-funior Grand Warden

v.·.W.' .PAUL A. PPLUBGE R ............. .............. .............. . Grand
Treasure r
v.·.w .· .EDWARD H. SIEMS.•..•.....•... ......•... ..•.... ......•....... .Grand
S ecretary
v.·.w.-.H AROLD N. RICHARD S.............. ... ........... ..............Grand

Lecturer

v.· .R.".RAN DALL

c. PHILLIPS•.•.......•.............................Grand C haplain

w.· .CLARE B . CAMPBE LL.............. ............ Assistan t Grand Lecturer
w . · . FRANK P. LEMEN .... .............. ......... ..... Assistan t Grand Lecturer
W. ·.WILLIA M F. PoYNTER ..... . ... .......... ..... Assistan t Grand Lecturer
W.".WA LLACE H. F1sKE.............. ..............Assistan t Grand Lecturer
w.-.ROB ERT A. CRIGLER.............. ............. . Assistan t Grand Lecturer
W.'.WIL LIAM H. PRICE. ............ .............. ... Assistan t Grand Lecturer
W. ·.WAR REN

J. BLOMSETH. . . .. ......... . .. ........ .................Grand Orator

W. ·.JACK F. BoWLEY ......... .............. ......... Assistan t Grand Treasure

r

W.".VER NE W. HENDRIX ....... . ... ........ . ....Assistan t Grand S ecreta
ry
w . ·.FREDER ICK E. CuTLER. .......... ... .............. ............ Grand Mars
hal
W. ·.PHIL CAMPBE LL ...... .............. ....... .. ......... Grand Standard

Bearer

w.· .ARTHUR DvoRIN ·-···-·-·····-- -····-··--·-·- ····-···--·G rand Sword Bearer

w.·.FRA NK G. HoLLENB ERG............. .. .............. ... Grand Bible. Bearer
W '. ·.WILLIA M A. RBvrrr.• -----··-····--···-···---········Senior Grand Deacon

W. ·.RICHAR D W. RYLANDE R.............. ............. ./unior Grand Deacon
W.".HER BERT H . CooPER.............. .............. ....Senior Grand S teward
W.".GEO RGE N. KAHAPEA , SR .......... . ...... .. ..... ./unior Grand Steward
w . -.F. WILLIAM HELLMA N...... ............ . .............. . .•Grand Pursuiva

nt

W. ·.HAROL D MUELLE R .............. .............. .. ... ........... .. Grand Organist
W.'.BUR TON 0. YoUNG••---·--···-··-----·--·····-······-··-··--····-··---Gra nd
T iler

8

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAS T GRA ND OFF ICE RS
PAST GRAND MASTERS
M : .w:.E DW ARD H. SrnMs
M:. W.' .LE o E. ANDERSON
M: .w:. ELL swo RTH MEY ER
M: .w:. Ptt1 L N. MYERS
M : .W ... LOUIS c. DRAPEAU
M : .w: .}OE L. SHELL
M :.w :.HE NRY c. CLAusEN
M:. w:.A LPR ED F. BRESLAUER
M:. w:.E ocA R v . STEWART . JR. M:.
w:. GuY B. M1zE
M: .w: .L. HAROLD ANDERsoN
M: .w: .ELMER w . HEALD
M: . w:.T ttEo ooR E MERIAM
PAST GRAND LECTURERS
v.·. w:. Do NALD G. CAMPBELL
v:. w :
.
One thou sand five hund red twen ty five .ELBERT w. DAv1 s
officers and repr esen tativ es
from 689 char tere d Lod ges and thre e
Lod ges unde r d~sp~n~at~on . 1270
Past Mas ters , and 21 disti ngui shed gues
ts from othe r 1unsd1ct1~ns were
pres ent. The Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd
Lod ge was ope~ed m amp le
form , following which the Flag of our
Cou ntry was received.

APP OIN TM ENT S

The Gra nd Mas ter anno unce d the appo
intm ent of Past Gra nd M~s­
ter Edg ar V . Stew art. Jr. to fill the vaca
ncy on the Com mitt ee on Poli cy
and Gen eral Purp oses due to the abse nce
of Pas t Gra nd Mas ter Ira W.
Cob urn.
The Dep uty Gra nd M aste r anno unce d
the appoint~ent o f N'l
1es ·
Mill ar as Cha irma n. Basil R . Gill ett and
Edw ard J. Bhc kfel dt as members of the Com mitt ee on Dist ribu tion.

o

TEL EGR AM S SEN

T
The Gra nd Mas ter dire cted the Gra nd
Secr etar y to send an appr opria te telegra m to each of the abse nt
Past Gra nd ·Masters.
TEL EGR AM S REC EIV

ED
The Gra nd Secr etar y repo rted having
rece ived teleg rams of co~­
grat ulati on from Gra nd Cou rt. Ord er of
Ama rant h. Stat e of Cahform~ ;
Gra nd Gua rdia n Council of Cali forn
ia, Inte rnat iona l Ord er of Job s
Dau ghte rs; and Mau ro Baradi. Past Gra
nd Mas ter, Gra nd Lod ge of the
Phil ippin es.
GA VEL S

The following Lod ges, Dist ricts and A.
ssociatio~ presen.ted gavels to
the Gra nd Mas ter whic h were used at
varto us sess ions duri ng the Com munication:
A member of Lod ge No. 42.
Lod ges Nos . 78. 140, 179. 192, 214.
220, 242. 301. 307, 308.
361, 380. 395, 409. 444, 504. 539, 633.
642. 708, 735, 799, 820 and
Boro n U.D .
Dist ricts Nos . 300, 301 , 406 and 580.
East Bay Mas ters and War dens Asso
ciati on.

9

ME MO RIA L SER VIC E
DEV OTI ON AL AN D NEC RO LOG Y
Org an Prel ude........................................
Har old Mue ller, Gran d Org anis t
Mas onic Grea tnes s ......................The Ver
y Rev eren d Ran dall C. Phil lips
Voc al 5010.................................................
.............................Aus tin Mos her
Nec rolo gy Report... ...................................
........................ Ada m B. Mor ten
Eul ogy -Os car Law ler.............. ..............
....................Leo E. And erso n
Eulo gy- Fra nk Harw ell, Jr.....................
.......................... Guy B. Miz e
Eulo gy- Leon 0. Whi tselL . .....................
............ L. Haro ld And erso n
Tap s ....................... ...................................
....Gra nd Org anis t and V ocal ist
Wor ship ful Gra nd Mas ter and Bret hren
: let me give notice that it
may be nece ssar y for me to retu rn to Los
Ang eles . I received the following teleg ram this mor ning , "Gr and Cha
plai n need ed for funeral service.
Publ ic buri al planned for Los Ang eles
Dod gers ."
Seriously. I wan t to say wha t a privilege
it has been to serv e as Gra nd
Cha plain . it has been a year of insp
iration and learn ing . As I have
trav eled amo ng you I have disco vere d
grea t sain ts and grea t seer s of
Mas onry . I conf ess. in rubb ing shou lder
s with such Mas onic grea tnes s
man y times I have felt "dow nrig ht stup
id.''
In spea king to some learn ed bodi es of
Mas onry I have felt like the
prea cher who was reall y goin g to town
on his serm on whe n an ineb riate d
man stoo d up in .the cong rega tion and
yelle d at him, " You ' re stup id."
The prea cher deci ded to igno re the man
and kept righ t on; how ever, in
a few minutes the man stag gere d to his
feet again and shou ted, "You' re
stup id." The prea cher deci ded then and
ther e he mus t do som ethin g
abou t this, and quic kly. Lean ing over
the pulp it he poin ted a finger directl y at his anta goni st and said, "I may
be stup id but you are drun k."
Imm edia tely the ineb riate stoo d up, sway
ing, and pointing his finger defiantly replied, " Ha. ha! I've got you,
tomo rrow I'll be sobe r and you' ll
still be stup id. " The truth of this stor y
hits hom e in declaring a real inadeq uacy I have felt man y times. "Th anks
be" ther e has been no need
of an ineb riate d man in my audi ence to
tell me the same.
It has been a grea t year of learn ing for
me as I have witn esse d Masoni c grea tnes s on the play ing field of
life. I have liked our Mos t W orship ful Gra nd Mas ter's use of the term
"coa ch" as he has spok en of his
role in relations hip to "the team " of Cali
forn ia Mas ons. This has mad e
me liken my position as Gra nd Cha plai
n to the Assi stan t Coa ch, with
the chie f duty to instill "the spiri tual"
that wou ld moti vate the team to
victory.
Spea king of grea t victo ry. the 1964 U.S.
C.~Notre Dam e gam e is still
a vivid pictu re in my mind. The Los Ang
eles Coli seum was alive with

10

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

tension, everyone expectantly awaited the dramatic entrance of the number one team of the land-Notre Dame, the team declared by the sports
writers to be unbeatable, impregnable, invincible. The cheering reached
a fever pitch, a confident cheering for the Irish-a loyal cheering for ~he
Trojans, then the game began. The quarters passed and a new tension
was sensed by the thousands gathered there. It was the striving only to
be released in victory. The gun went off, the game ended. the U .S.C .
Troja ns had won!
Finally: when the singing, the pounding. the hooting had ceasedmy good friend of the years, Red Bishop. in a husky voice m~de.a remark
I will never forget. "Randy, no more preaching 'peace .of mmd. sermons
for you. What you need is to get Coach John McKay s half-time notes
and 'give the congregation hell' on Sunday. Who knows what would
happen, you might even get them to run instead of walk out of ch~rch on
Sunday." Now I have never gotten around to get Coach McKay s notes
nor have I asked him to preach for me, but I've thought often about the
remark of my friend for 1 am sure the coach didn't instruct his team t.o
go out on the field and relax-let go and think pretty thou~h~s . ~here. ts
a need to stir people to great striving, there is a time for str1vmg if a victory is to be won. ·
·
In my "fight talk" to you as Masons this day. I want it clear 1 am ~ot
interested in Masonry that sits back and lets the world go by. I am interested in Masonry that is striving for victory of truth over falsehood.
for victory of humanity over inhumanity, for victory of justice over injustice, for victory of love over hate. There is a game to be played and a
world to be won , for a specific training instruction I would call you to
live in the example of The Temple Builder-King Solomon. First, he
was a learner; second, he was a builder.

puter." Yesterday looking out at the Golden Gate Bridge, I couldn't help
going through the same ritual again, "What do I see when I see the
Golden Gate Bridge?" The answer came, "I see God. "

11

Masonry, on the playing field of life. is always at it's best illuminating and illustrating The Truth of God. This is our greatness! When a
Mason is learning his degree work he is active and at his best, when an
officer is learning his ritual work he is active and at his best. it is when
a Mason stops learning he becomes an "inactive." I feel drastic measures
must be taken in Masonry to keep our members learning . I would suggest
every Lodge break it's total membership into groups which will meet at
least once a month for the study of the tenets of Masonry. This is my
proposal to activate the inactive.
How tragic is the cartoon showing a man standing in a library surrounded by shelves of books . he is looking out the window-it is raining.
Underneath is the remark, " What on earth can a man do on a day like
this?" My. fi~ht talk would dare every Mason to "look around you."
there are hm1tless resources at your disposal, there are limitless possibilities for your life!

HE w AS A LEARNER

Let's fac~ it! Daily there are those who "give up" in the learning
struggle, their stand~rd answer given in various forms to the problems of
the world ~ w.~ether 1t be automation. racial riots, or wa r in Viet Nam) is
an apathe.t1c what can I do about it anyway?" In giving up his identit
as a learning, purposeful individual he becomes like the young lady wh~
went up to th~. bank window with a check to be cashed and was asked
b?' the ~eller, Can you .identify yourself?" The girl. flustered by this,
~1pp~d 1~to he~ purse, quickly ~ulled out a small mirror and glancing into
it sa~d, Yes, 1t s me all right. · The greatest danger of the automation
age is that man will give up his learning and forget who he is and who
created him.

King Solomon was known by men far and near for his great wisdom.
He was one who listened and learned from people of other lands than
his own. He was a king who could see in the common-place affairs of his
people The Truth of God illustrated. The kind of lea~n.er that I. would
call you to be is one that likewise is able to see the spmtual behind the
material.
Walking with a friend the other day we p~~sed a neighbor's garden
filled with blooming roses. My friend asked, What do you see when
you see a rose?" I answered hurriedly, "Something very beautiful." He
went on. "I see God." His reply, a simple ritual of awareness, has stuck
in my mind. A week later while going through a large company building
I was shown their newly installed I.B.M. computer. Suddenly I found
myself asking the question "What d.~ you see wh~n you see .an l:B.M.
computer?" My answer came back, I see a creation of mans mmd, a
mind that was created by God. "I see GOD when I see an I.B.M. com-

To practice learning by awareness I would suggest every Mason play
the game "Katzenspeil" (cat's play). A cat can see in the dark and we
unobservant mortals ref use to see, that is the basis of the game. Dr. Marcus Back tells of first learning the game from his cousin Herr Dokter
Paulu~; he tells that when his stern, German~trained, cousin came to visit
at their home. he had a way of turning the living room into a classroom
One evening the Herr Dokter called all of the family together, it wa~
then he annou~ced he wo~ld .t.each the game of "Katzenspeil." Ordering
all to close their eyes he said, Now while your eyes are shut I want each
of you to describe the room we are in. What are the walls like? What is
~e pattern of the curtains? What color are the carpets? What are the
titles of the books on the shelves?" Then changing, "What are the colors
of the clothes. of tho~e sitting ne~t to you?" Needling and prodding he
made the family realize they didn t know the answers, all were living in
a house with details and treasures that had never been noticed. The Herr

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Dokter then becoming philosophical said, "how can we have the kind
of world we would like to have?" His answer was a definite one. "take
a n inventory of the kind of world we've got."
The truth hits home! We fail to see our blessings. w e do not observe
that we already possess many of the things we desire. This applies not
only to material things but to our philosophies and beliefs as well. Such
a game should startle every Mason to awake to the truth in symbols and
in allegories that surround him. My plea is "come alive Masons to God's
Truth illustrated all around you!"
At a recent convention held in the East a famed speaker left his
startled listeners with this awakening fact, "There are fifty-two million
more people born into this world each year, one hundred thousand more
every twenty-four hours. Unless something is done to check the growth
of population or expand the world's food production, racial starvation is
inevitable. I don't know what you are going to do with the rest of your
four score and ten , but I am going to be seeking answers. Good night,
sleep well, a nd if you can't sleep--get up and do some more searching."
Masonic Brothers, we walk in the footsteps of King Solomon who was
a man of wisdom, of grea t learning. Let us come alive to our purpose. let
us recommit ourselves to the discipline of great learning.

with business associates, etc.", those who could see creatively a fuller
dimension for building bridges were kept for the final interview and one
was chosen for the job.
To e~~ry Mason I would li~e to ask a ques tion . "have you ever built
?.temple. I. pray _your Masonic understanding will see this question in
1t s fullest _dimension before you give a has ty NO. Masonry is not just
int~re.sted ~n building an edifice of rock and mortar; the temple must be
bu~lt ~nto life, t~e t~mple must be built in home life, the temple must be
built m com.m~nity l~ f~, th~ temple must be built in church life. the temple
must be built m political life! Your job and mine is to build the temple.
Let us never forget this!
There are other theologians in our day than the "death of God" boys .
these men declare with power and clarity that "God is alive!" We need to
know this and read these men for they are proclaiming what we believe
is basic in Masonry.
Dr. Harvey Cox, in his book The Secular C ity. declares man must
ful'fil~ h.i s plac; in the scheme of creation by being a co-crea tor with God.
that it is mans task - to create the kind of "world of worth" he would
live in. Dietrich Bonhoffer, in his book letters From a Prison Cell, states
"Man must live in the midst of life as THE MAN FOR OTHERS." H.
Richard Neihbur proclaims, "The Hebraic-Christian witness calls for the
RESPO_NS.IBLE. ~AN IN SOCIETY." I would call out to Masonry
to examme its bu1ldmg program. Are we spending our time in nonsense
inadvertently declaring "God is Dead, " or are we creatively building a
temple of worth---declaring our God is Alive?
President Gene Bartlett of the Colgate-Rochester Divinity School
tells the story of Wahlstrom, a thinking kind of man. It seems that
Wahlstrom purchased an old bomb sight, he took it apart to see what it
w~s like but when he started to put it together again he added some
m1~cellaneous parts. He became fascinated with his new pastime and
neighbors began to bring in parts of machinery for his use. He went on
expanding his mechanism, for ten years he kept putting together wheels,
cogs, belts and bolts. As a result he had a machine called "Wahlstrom's
Wonder." When he threw a switch three-thousand parts began to move
~ells rang, lights flashed, belts from large wheels ran small wheels'.
There is only one difficulty," said a friend of Walhstrom, "it doesn't do
anything ...it just runs. It is a monument to trivia, it is creativity that goes
nowhere.
Members of Grand Lodge, I would call you to make your creativity
go somewhere. Build a better world in the name of the Supreme Grand
Maste.r of Love; there is peace to win, there is prejudice to be overcome,
there is understanding to achieve. there is brotherhood to be realized
'
there is humanity to be upheld.
his
with
epitaph
own
his
wrote
Jefferson
Did you know that Thomas
own hand? He gave the wording for it to his daughter. Surely Jefferson's

HE WAS A BUILDER

King Solomon will be remembered in time and eternity as the Builder
of The Temple in Jerusalem. He was more than a dreamer and a thinker,
he was a man of action. He showed by his life that work is a compliment
to awareness. he truly projected his awareness of God into every day
·r eality.
The example of King Solomon is needed as we see our own disconnectedness in thinking and action. I recall the story of a man's visit to a
business executive friend . As he walked into his friend 's office he looked
around and said, "What happened to all of the THINK signs you h.ad
posted?" The friend answered," I had to take them down, for the people
in the office were sitting around thinking all day and nobody was doing
any work." The other extreme is the statement made "he is so busy being
busy he can't get anything done." We would underscore that thinking is
not enough without building, and building is not enough without thinking.
A large industry in California was looking for a creative executive
to take over one of it's important departments. One of the questions
asked of the applicants interviewed was "have you ever built a bridge?"
Those who gave an immediate "no", or who laughed the question off.
were marked off the possibility list. Those who pondered the question
and said in their own way "yes, I have tried to build some bridges along
the way-between my wife and myself, with the kids, with neighbors,

13

14

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

greatness is exemplified not by what is written on his resting place, but
by what he himself did not write for it. Calling his daughter to him he
told her that only the following inscription (and not one word more)
was to appear. "Here lies Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration
of Independence, of the Statutes of Virginia for Religious Freedom, and
father of the University of Virginia." That is all!
Jefferson was Governor of Virginia, you recall, he doesn't mention
this; he was elected to Congress-no mention; he was appointed Minister to Frnnce-not a word. Jefferson was Secretary of State, he was Vice
President-no word; and, oh yes, a grateful Republic elected him President of the United States-twice. He does not mention that at all. Why?
Jefferson told his daughter why. "Things that are not on my inscription,"
he said, "are things the people did for me. The things that are on it are
things I did for the people."
My final question I would put to each one of you personally as a
Brother Mason is, WHAT WILL YOU DO FOR THE PEOPLE?
This query is to hold up the Masonic dimension. You are called to build
the temple right where you are in the midst of a society of people. Look
again to King Solomon, he declares all of this by his example as a learner
and as a builder.
Finally, as your sipiritual coach I would "give you hell" as a team, to
go out on the field of life and play to win-play every minute as a team.
May the spirit of the living, loving Supreme Grand Master of The Universe inspire you.

smiles we long" but with Whittier we must add "But God has led our
dear ones on. And He can do no wrong."
The statistics of our report can be given very briefly. During the
year four hundred and forty of our members were translated from our
imperfect Lodge to the "Celestial Lodge above where the S upreme
Grand Master forever presides." Of these, three were Masters of their
Lodges at the time of death; five were Wardens. and four hundred
thirty two were Past Masters. Three hundred fourteen Lodges suffered
losses. Two hundred fourteen Lodges lost one member each; seventy
one Lodges lost two; twenty four Lodges lost three; and three Lodges
lost four.
On the roll this year are the names of many men distinguished both
in the Fraternity and in our State. During the year we lost three of our
Past Grand Masters. Oscar Lawler, elected Grand Master in 1908 and
our Senior Past Grand Master, passed away January 3, 1966. An
eulogy for Brother Lawler will be presented by Past Grand Master Leo
E. Anderson. Past Grand Master Frank Harwell, Jr., whom we had
hoped would be with us for many years. was taken from us on January
26. 1966. An eulogy will be given by Past Grand Master Guy B. Mize.
Past Grand Master Leon 0. Whitsell, well known historian of Masonry
in California, died February 26. 1966. An eulogy for Brother Whitsell
will be given by Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson.
The list of those who have held some office in this Grand Lodge
is unusually long . All merit mention but. owing to the number involved,
the space given to each will have to be limited in order to keep wi thin
the time assign~d for this report. In some cases the Lodges have not
provided information and we shalf be limited to what we can get from
office records.
Claude. Everett Cole. Sr., whose name ought to have appeared last
year, passed away June 4, 1965, at Redding. the victim of a heart attack.
He was born on May 23, 1906, in Los Angeles, and graduated from
Inglewood High School and studied at U.S.C. and U. of C. at Redlands. For many years he had his own accounting firm in Inglewood.
He was active in civic affairs and was nominated for the "Man of the
Year" in his community. In 1964 he moved to Redding and acquired a
partnership in a mortuary there. He was raised a Master Mason on
October 10, 1927, in Inglewood Lodge No. 421 and served as Master
of that Lodge in 1959. He was also active in York Rite and a member
of Scottish Rite. Brother Cole served on Grand Lodge committees and
for two years was Chairman of the important and active Public Schools
Committee. An active Mason, he will be missed especially by his brethren in Inglewood and Redding.
Arthur Bridge Ste.el was probably the senior member of this Grand
Lodge at the time of his death on October 16. 1965. Born in C ambridge,
England, on May 8, 1870. he came to California at the age of sixteen.

IT IS A TIME FOR GREAT STRIVING IF A VICTORY IS TO
BEWONJ
Vocal Solc>--N ecrology
Again we have reached the hour when we pause to take note of
those of our members who have been taken from us during the past
year, and to pay our tribute of respect and affection to their memory.
Death is an inevitable experience for everyone. "Man that is born
of woman is of few days and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a
flower and is cut down; he Heeth also as a shadow and continueth not."
The roll of the deceased in an organization with the number of members of this Grand Lodge is inevitably long. None of us will know all on
that roll but all of us will know some of the names. and some of us will
recognize many names of long time friends and brothers with whom we
have worked and had rich fellowship. The compilation of the list. as
reports come in from the constituent Lodges, is always a little sadden~
ing. We do not "sor·r ow as those without hope" but we miss the companionship we have enjoyed. While it is a joy to meet many friends as
we assemble at Grand Lodge, and to feel the warm handclasp of many
we have known across the years, we do miss some whom we looked
forward to greeting. '"We long for household voices gone. For vanished

16

PROCEEDING S OF THE

He worked at various jobs in his early years in California. Settling in
Redondo Beach, he successfully engaged in several enterprises at the
beginning of this century. He was appointed Postmaster in 1910 and
served for many years in that office. Prior to this he had served eight
years on the Board of Trustees of his city.
In March, 1899, he was raised a Master Mason in Evergreen Lodge
No. 259 in Riverside, affiliated with Redondo Lodge No. 328 in December, 1899, and became its Master in 1903. From the time he was installed Senior Warden in 1901 to the date of his death- for sixty four
years - he was a member of this Grand Lodge. Active in the Methodist
Church, the Masonic Lodge and civic affairs. his life was built into the
whole life of Redondo Beach and we can well understand the high
esteem and love of his brethren. We all join them in saying of this fine
brother. "Servant of God well done."
Clouds B. Sylvester, well known Methodist Minister, was released
from the body after a long, lingering illness on November 26, 1965, at
the age of 86 years. C.B. was born in Brookville, Indiana. and was educated at Moores Hill College. now Evansville College, Indiana. He
became a Methodist Minister in 1901 and came to California in 1907.
He was for forty years an active Minister a nd served a number of
churches. including Modesto, Burlingame, San Jose, Berkeley and
Stockton. Retiring in 1946. he made his home in San Jose and for seven
years after his retirement served as Associate Minister at San Jose Firs t
Methodist Church.
He was made a Master Mason in San Jose Lodge No. 10 and was
a member of that Lodge until his death. In 1950 he served with distinction as Grand Chaplain of this Grand Lodge with Past Grand Master
Arthur Paulsen. A member of San Jose Cons istory, Scottish Rite, he
was coronated 33° in 1957. A man of great heart a nd booming voice.
he was a powerful spea ker. He was respected by all and loved by those
of us who knew him well. His work here is finished a nd he has entered
into the joy of his Lord.
Joseph Russell Know/and. When Joseph R. Knowland succumbed to
pneumonia on Februa ry 1, 1966, at the age of ninety two years. California and the United States lost a truly great and distinguishe d citizen .
In our limited space we are able to say little about one about whom so
much has been written . He was born in Alameda on August 5, 1873.
educated in Alameda schools and at University of Pacific which was
then in San Jose. Elected to the State Assembly at the age of 25, he
served also in the Sta te Senate. Appointed to Congress in 1904, he was
afterward elected for five full terms. He was influential in the development of many projects- the Panama Canal; the construction of Oakland
Harbor; the San Francisco-O akland Bay Bridge. A great conservation ist, he served as Chairman of the State Park Commission from 1937
until he retired in 1960. He had much to do with the growth of our

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

17

State Park system. In 1915 he became Publisher of the Oakland Tribune and has been a potent figure in journalism across the years. It is
impossible to enumerate the committees for social betterment on which
he has served. One writer says. " Knowland packed more accomplishments into his 92 years than a half dozen other distinguishe d men might
have done."
Joseph Knowla nd was raised a Master Mason in June, 1898. in Oak
Grove Lodge No. 215 and was Master of the Lodge in 1904. He served
as Grand Orator in this Grand Lodge when Edward H . Siems was
Grand Mas ter in 1948. Very active in Scottish Rite, he was coronated
33° in 1937. He was also a Knight Templar and member of many social
and service organization s. His son, William F. Knowland, was for many
years a U .S. Senator and Senate Leader of his party. He is now Editor
and Publisher of the Oakland Tribune. Joseph Knowland is also survived by a large number of grandchildre n and great grandchildre n.
No words of ours can add luster to the life of this great man who
did so much for his State and fellow men. He will be greatly missed but
we are deeply thankful for the achievemen ts of this outgoing life, and
are enriched by so much that he did.

Edward Leslie Kellas was the victim of a heart attack on June 2,
1966. at the age of seventy three years. Brother Kellas was a native of
Newton, Kansas, and had lived in Fresno since 1905. A graduate of the
University of California and a respected member of the bar, he was
appointed to the Superior Court bench in 1949 by Governor Earl Warren and was re~~lected without opposition in 1950, 1956 and 1962.
Edward Kellas was raised a Master Mason in June, 1934, in Fresno
Lodge No. 247 and was Master of his Lodge in 1947. He served on the
Committee for M asonic Education from 1963 until the time of his death.
He was also Grand Bible Bearer in 1964.
Roy Harvey Parkinson was gathered unto his fathers on March 3,
1966. A nati ve of Ashland, Oregon, he was one of several brothers who
became doctors. His particula r field was eye, ea r, nose and throat and
he practiced in that field for many years in the East Bay a rea. He was
raised a Master Ma son on November 21, 191 7, in King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260. In 1920 he demitted from tha t Lodge and affiliated with
East Bay Lodge No. 489 where he went through the chairs and served
as Master in 1926. He was commissione d Inspector in 1928 and served
for eight years on the old Dis trict 33. His death at the age of seventy
five ended a life which had shown a high degree of devotion to Masonic
activities. One of his services. typical of the man , was the ca re he provided, without cha rge. to the residents of the Masonic Home at Decoto,
who were in need of the help he could give. He is survived by his wife,
a daughter, and a brother - also a doctor. We pay our tribute of respect to a brother who served long for the joy of serving.

18

PROCE EDING S OP THE

Frank Lincoln Richa rds, Inspe ctor of Distri ct 590. passe
d away on
April 18. 1966. Broth er Richa rds was a memb er of
Crafts men Lodge
No. 559, havin g affili ated with that Lodge in Janua ry.
1947. He becam e
its Maste r and serve d in the year 1956. He was comm
ission ed Inspe ctor
on Septe mber 18, 1963, and serve d Distri ct 590 to the
da te of his death .
We honor him for servic e rende red to the Frate rnity.
Georg e South ard Ward . Trage dy struck sudde nly
on Highw ay 99,
south of Gazel le in Siskiy ou Coun ty, on Sunda y,
May 8, 1966, and
amon g seven killed was the belov ed Inspe ctor of Distri
ct 104. Geor~e
S. Ward . Broth er Ward was a native of Siskiyou
Coun ty. Born m
Dunsm uir on Janua ry 19, 1902, he receiv ed his educa
tion in Duns muir
and Moun t Shast a schoo ls. In his earlie r life he worke
d at variou s jobs
in the Coun ty and in l 930 he becam e a custo dian
in the Yreka High
Schoo l. where he served as head custo dian for the
last thirty years . In
close touch with the stude nts. he has been an influe
nce with many high
schoo l gener ations .
A devot ed Maso n. he was raised in Howa rd Lodg
e No. 37 on
Augu st 28. 1930,and serve d as Maste r in 1934. Comm
ission ed Inspe ctor
on Janua ry I. 1937, he serve d Distri ct 104 until the
time of his death .
His largel y attend ed funera l, condu cted by Howa rd
Lodge . wa~ held _in
Yreka High Schoo l Audit orium . Our symp athy goes
out to his family
and his Maso nic breth ren in Yreka , Fort Jones and
Etna . He serve d
faithf ully and well, and his influence will live on in
the many whom he
helpe d.
John Behre ns, Inspe ctor Distri ct 378, passe d away Marc
h 13, 1966,
aged 70 years . John was born in Germ any and has
reside d in the Bay
Area for over 50 years . He ma na ged a delica tessen
busine ss for many
years . Ra ised in H erman Lodge No. 127 in Septe mber.
1921, he becam e
its Maste r in 1934. Comm ission ed Inspe ctor Janua ry
2. 1935. he serve d
till 1963 when he resign ed owing to ill health . Reapp
ointed Septe mber
2, 1965, he was still servin g at the time of his death
. He is surviv ed by
his wife and two sons. A faithf ul man. belov ed by
his breth ren, we
honor him for servic es rende red.
Forrest F. Langenour. promi nent Wood land farme r
, died May 18.
l 966. in Wood land Memo rial Hospi tal after a length
y illness. He was
66 years of age. A gradu ate of U .C. at Davis in 1921,
and a promi nent
farme r, he serve d as direct or of Califo rnia State Fair.
Raise d in Yolo
Lodg e No. 81, he was Maste r of that Lodg e in 1935.
He was Grand
Swor d Beare r in this Gran d Lodge in 1957. He was
also active in York
Rite Maso nry, being Past Comm ander of Wood land
Comm ander y a nd
Past Poten tate of Ben Ali Shrin e, Sacra mento . He
is surviv ed by his
wife and son. A depen dable man, he serve d with
fidelity and will be
greatl y missed in Wood land.

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORN IA

19

f. Coit Allen , who served faithfully as a member of the Gran
d
T iler's s taff at the Comm unica tions of this Gran d Lodge
, died June 19,
1966, in San Franc isco. He was 97 years of age and
had been a Maso n
since Janua ry, 1893 - for over 73 years. Comi ng to
Califo rnia in 1911 ,
he had been active in P arnas sus Lodge No. 388 until
the time of his
death . A bache lor, he leaves no imme diate family.
H is Maso nic breth ren in Parna ssus Lodge and in Gran d Lodge const ituted
his family and
he held an honored place in our ranks .
Charles Milto n Coffland, Past Maste r o f Temp le City
Lodge No.
612, passe d away in Los Angeles on July 8, I %6.
Born in Bann ock,
Ohio, on Janua ry 12, 1908. he was 58 years of age.
For many years
he was a value d emplo yee of Los Ange les Coun ty Engin
eering Depa rtment. A memb er of Temp le City Lodg e, he serve d as
its Maste r in 1953.
Appo inted Inspe ctor of Distri ct 564 on Janua ry I ,
1955, he serve d on
that Distri ct until Decem ber, 1959. Active in youth
work, he was the
first Chap ter Dad of Temp le City Chap ter of DeMo
lay. His death , at
a comp arativ ely early age, is a loss to Maso nry and
he will be great ly
misse d by his brethr en.
Finis Newt on Rober ts, a vetera n Past Maste r of
Winn edum ah
Lodg e No. 287, was released from the bonda ge of the
body on Augu st
7. I 966, after a length y illness . Born in Gran t
City, Misso uri, on
Decem ber 17, 1896. he was almos t 70 years of age.
He enlist ed at an
early age in the Air Force and serve d for the durati on
of Worl d War I.
Recal led to servic e in 194 1, he serve d in the Alask
an and Europ ean
theate rs in Worl d War II. A memb er of the active
reserve, he held
the rank of Lieute nant Colon el until his retire ment
in 1959. He was an
engin eer with the Divis ion of Highw ays for 38 years.
Activ e in civic
affairs, he serve d on the Schoo l Board for many years.
A Past Maste r
of Winn edum ah Lodge , he served this Grand Lodge
as Bible Beare r in
1956. A true serva n t of his fellow men. he was the type
that keeps brigh t
the image of Maso nry.
H enry Drash ner, memb er and Past Maste r of Hespe
rian Lodg e No.
264, Santa Maria , succu mbed to a series of heart attack
s on Augu st 18.
1966. He was 64 years of age. Broth er Drash ner, whos
e home was in
Santa Maria , was born in Kansa s but had been in
Santa Maria since
1929. He retire d in 1964 after being State Inspe ctor
of fru its and vegetables for 36 years. He was a working Maso n for
many years . After
servin g his Lodge as Maste r. he was appoi nted Inspe
ctor of Distri ct 506
in Febru ary, 1955, and served in that capac ity for over
ten years . God
decre ed that his work was done, and we pay our tribut
e of respe ct to
one who labore d so faithf ully amon g us.
Carlisle Dohn N ielsen died in Mode sto Augu st 3 1, 1966,
at the age
of 70 years . A member of the bar, he was a memb er
of many organ iza-

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THt

tions and rendered d istinguished service in Oakland and Berkeley. He
was an ardent Mason, being a member and Past Master of Henry
Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541. He was active in York Rite Masonry.
He had given invaluable service as a director of the Masonic Clubhouse
at Berkeley over many years. At various times he served as President.
Secretary, and Treasurer of that Board. We are deeply appreciative for
his long service. He will be sorely missed, especially in East Bay circles.
The complete list of the 440 is attached to, and made a part of this
report. Many merit mention. Some have been men of many talents who
have served in high places and whose names are well known. Some were
men of fewer talents whose names are not known outside their own
areas, but who nevertheless served up the measure of their strenHth and
ability. All kept alive the imagery of Masonry in California and mai ntained standards of integrity. brotherly love, charity, and truth, so
essentially necessary in this modern age. Their work was not finished .
God having provided that we must have a part in their tasks. May all
of us, as a fitting tribute to their memory, rededicate ourselves to the
task of maintaining the great principles of Masonry in every phase of
our modern life. Today we do not sorrow for the dead but gird ourselves anew in the faith that death is not a "grim tyrant" but a " kind
messenger"; not a punishment but a blessing; not an end but a beginning. and in that faith let us press on with strength in the work to which
God has called us.
"Inasmuch as their labors were not in vain in the Lord."

OSCAR LAWLER
Grand M aster-1908
Born
April 2. 1875
Marshalltown. Iowa

Di<'d

January 3, 1966
Los Angeles, California

22

PROCE EDING S OF THE

EUL OGY
OSCA R LAW LER
By LEO E . ANDE RSON
To speak of a highly valued and belov ed friend on
this occas.ion is
a difficult under taking for me and if I stumb le or
pause to regain my
comp osure please bear with me.
On the other side, to be asked to speak of O scar Law
ler is an honor
and privile ge I shall alway s cheris h. For over 67
years the Maso ns ~f
Califo rnia have held him in high esteem and have
exten ded to him
sincer e broth erly love and affect ion. and he has given
to us of his keen
sense of humo r. his wise couns el and leaders hip
and that love of his
fellowmen and brethr en which bound him to our hearts
with bands of
steel.
The story of Oscar Lawle r is an Amer ican story.
built and indelibly welde d into the histor y of Los Ange les. of Califo
rnia a.nd of the
United States . He was born in Mars hallto wn. Iowa.
on Apnl 2. 1875.
the fifth of ten childr en. The whole fa mily work~d
and Oscar starte d in
the fields of the neigh boring farms and with the family
chore s of milking·
garde ning and so forth. When about 11 years old, he
becam e the janito r
of the local public schoo l. sweep ing. settin g the fires
· in the old stoves .
haulin g ashes. shove ling snow and all the rest of t~at
job at $10.00 per
month .
•' .
In 1888 the family moved to Los Angel es. which was
experien~ing a
" hango ver" from the I 887 boom. Jobs were scarce .
but that d1dn t stop
Oscar Lawle r; howev er. it did stop his schoo ling.
He sold newsp apers .
was a cash- boy in a dry goods store at $2.50 per week.
a West ern Union
messe nger at $20 per month . and hall boy at the Ca
lifornia Club at $25
per month . In 1918 he became presid ent of that club.
When about 15 years old. w hile worki ng at the Califo
rnia Club. he
starte d to study law on his own. Confu sed by the
legal phr~ses. h.e
appea led to Henry O'Me lveny for advic e and then
reorg amzed his
studie s.
Short ly therea fter he quit the club. janito red to pay
his tuition and
learne d shorth and and typew riting . With this learne
d. he entered the
emplo y of Leo Longl ey. an official court repor ter.
The work was hard.
requir ing long and late hours of transc ribing court
testim ony and . Long ley arrang ed for Osca r to do steno graph ic work for
J udg.e Ers~me M ·
Ross and the Unite d States Attor ney so that he could
contin ue his study
of law. Durin g these times, our distin guish ed Broth
er met and est.ablished lastin g friend s hips with many of the great leader
s of that penod .
After a long strugg le to earn his own living and
a t the same time
study law. Oscar was admit ted to practi ce law in 1896
and his struggl~s
as a lawye r comm enced . He paid his office rent by
doing steno graph ic

GR AND LODGE OF C<\LIF ORNIA

23

work for his assoc iates. gathe red mome ntum as a lawye
r, forme d a partnersh ip and was on his way to fame.
But I have had to remin d mysel f not to be too seriou
s today becau se
Oscar Lawle r would not want us to do so. We here
pay our tribut e to a
nwn who was a leade r in his political party. a Unite
d States Attor ney,
an Assis tant Attor ney Gener al of the Unite d States
, a special envoy of
Presid ent T a ft to the Presid ent of Mexic o to arran
ge for action to keep
the Color ado River under contro l after it had floode
d Imperial Valle y.
He was also presid ent of the Los Angel es Bar Assoc
iation and the leade r
of count less civic, club and frater nal organ izatio ns.
Yet he was a humb le
man who avoid ed perso nal tribut es. How well I remem
ber the difficulty
I had gettin g any of his biogr aphy from him in order
to presen t a pictur e
of Oscar Lawle r and his accom plishm ents to the Grand
Lodge of California in 1958. We wante d to comm emorn te the 50th
anniv ersary of his
election as Grand Maste r of Maso ns in Califo rnia.
I finally persu aded
his secret ary to dig it out piece by piece with occas
ional questi ons and
talk of Oscar 's young er days.
I also remem ber the day when the Los Ange les Coun
ty Bar Assoc iation . of which he was a past presid ent, held a lunch
eon in his honor and
when things began to get seriou s Oscar broug ht out
gales of la ughte r
as he told storie s of early day lawsu its. repea ting in
wond erful Swed ish
and other dialec ts. the testim ony of variou s witne sses.
His great sense of humo r. humb leness and love of
his fello'" men.
added to his outsta nding ability. must have had somet
hing to do with
his rise to fame ii; so many fields. A sense of humo
r, for examp le. is a
great bala nce wheel . This same sense of humo r must
have helpe d build
the great friend ship with Will Roger s, anoth er great
Maso n, whos e
tragic death at Point Barro w. Alaska . touch ed Oscar
very deepl y and
he partic ipated in the a rra ngem ents for the funera l
and the buildi ng of
memo rials to this great Amer ican aroun d the count
ry.
Let me touch briefly on his Maso nic career . He becam
e a Mas ter
Maso n in Eas tgate Lodge No. 290 on April 22. 1898,
and three years
later was its Maste r. He then served as Secre tary
for the Maso nic
Board of Relief.
When the disast rous earthq uake and fire wreck ed
San Franc isco,
Oscar and Motle y Flint. the then Gra nd Maste r .
put togeth er a relief
train. assem bled money . food and suppli es. and
in about three days
(fast time in 1906) were in San Franc isco bringi ng
M asonic relief to
the distre ssed. the homel ess and suffer ing regard less
of Maso nic affiliation. To illustr ate the respe ct in which he was then
held. I under stand
that Bisho p Conn aty of the Los Ange les C atholic Dioce
se hande d Osca r
a packa ge of severa l thous and dollar s to take to
the Bishop in San
Franc isco on this same train. Few men merit such
confidence.
Osca r spent severa l weeks in San Franc isco on this
mission of mercy .
anoth er chapt er in his record of service.

24

PROCEEDING S OF TH E

While in Washington . D. C.. our friend . rememberin g San Francisco.
s ta rted the program to build the George W ashington Masonic Memorial
to house and protect the priceless rel ics of George Washington . another
great M ason. Anoth er great service to M asonry an d Amer ica.
Then. in 1908, just I 0 years after becoming a Mason. Oscar Law ler
was elected Grand Master of all M asons in California and Hawaii.
Here again he served with distinction . Not only did he visit a ll of
the Lodges in California. traveling mostly by horse and carriage or stage
coach. but he started man y worthwhile projects s uch as additional hospital facili ties for those in our home for th e a ged in northern California .
and additio nal pro perty for children in need located in San Gabriel in
southern California. I believe he was th e last G ra nd M aster to visi t
each Lodge on a n individua l Lodge basis. They were becoming too
numerou s and he recognized this in his message to Grand Lodge.
Our distinguis hed Brother also had the distinction of laying the
cornerstone s for many public buildings as well as Masonic buildings.
Th is is a \·ery brief story of his activities and acco mplishments in 1908
and 1909.
After serving as Grand Master. Oscar Lawler continued his interest
in Masonry and its var ious organization s a nd served for years on the
Jurispruden ce Committee, acting as its chairman until his retirement.
after which he was continued as a member emeritus. His service to
Grand Lodge and to Masonry is indelibly recorded and will not be
forgotten.
The members o f the Jurispruden ce Committee of Grand Lodge and
the Past Grand M asters w ho resided in southern Californ ia will long
re member the genial hospita lity w hich we en joyed at Osca r's home on
the occasions when we met to discuss resolutions an d other matters
w hi ch were to be acted upon by these two groups. Fraterna l fellowship.
excellent food and w ise counsel were dispensed to us in a way which
ma de those meetings something to look forward to.
He was also a member of the Y ork Rite and Scottish Rite Bodies,
the Shrine and the Red Cross of Constantine, and received the rank a nd
decoration of Kni ght Commander of the Court of H o nor from the Scottish Rite.
Since Oscar Lawler came to California in 1888 o ur country has
passed through three wars and is now in a fourth war and changed
from a farming to a n industrial giant. Los Angeles. from a sleepy Mexican town . has adva nced to a foremost place among world cities. and
California. from a r emote an d d istant national stepchild . has become a
great agricultural. industrial. fin ancial and maritime center of constantly
increasing stature.
During his lifetime the bicycle has come, flo ur is hed. an d, with the
ho rse. r eceded to minor impo rtance as a means of transportation: the
telephone has outrun the telegraph. and both are overs hadowed by radio

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

25

and tele.vision. Trncks and buses. long encroaching on railroads and
s~eam s ~1ps . are being superseded by the airplane; oil ha s replaced coal.
~1esel is rapidly displacing steam. and e lectricity. impinging both. is
~ tself threatened by atomic power. Shorthand report ing has been mechan1 ~ally su pplanted. and tape-recordi ng and television are rea lities .
~rowned .heads h~ve become largely a memory . the British Empire has
g iven up Its colonial greatness; Germany is di vided ; Holland's colonial
power has all but vanished; Mu ssolini and Hitler. strutting across the
narrow. sta ge, have. explod~d and disappeared . The long and horrible
a bsolutism of Czarist R ussia . dro wned in its own blood. has been repl~ced by the bruta l irresponsibi lity of C ommunism, and the world's
misfortunes ha ve been topped by the arrogance of that contradictio n of
all decencies. whose ascendancy t hreatens the cheris hed aspirations of
w hat we. have been pleased to regard as the most advanced civilization
with which the world has been blessed.
This is jus~ a brief story of Oscar Lawler , a great man, a great lawyer.
a great ~menca~ a nd a ~rea t M aso n. and I believe that words spoken
b~ him in 1909 .m spe~kmg of a friend of his who had passed away.
might well be said of him and l quo te Oscar's own words:
"Great. ~a son. sincere and true friend. patriotic, upright and
h?nored c1.tizen; cons ta nt exemplar of those homely and simple
V1Ctues which demonstrate that the creature is indeed made in the
1~ag~ . of his great C reator. the world is better for his having
lived.
. And so here to.d ay we salute Oscar Lawler. He is not gone, he is
1ust a"'."ay. H.e will never really die for he lives in the hearts a nd
me mones of his family and friends. May we so Jive that some day we
s ha ll meet again. to part no more.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

EULOGY

FRANK HARWELL. JR.

Grand Master- 1953
Born
October 4. 1898
La Grange. Georgia

Died
January 25, 1966
Los Angeles. California

FRANK HARWELL, JR.
By Guy B. M1zE
"Thus severing another link in the fraternal chain by which we are
bound together."
Once again these familiar words from our memorial service for departed brethren were brought home to the hearts of the Masons in this
jurisdiction when the sad news of the passing of Past Grand Master
Frank Harwell. Jr. came to us on January 25, 1966.
Following the Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge in October. 1965, he returned to his home and business in Los Angeles, but we
who had occasion to be in contact with him were distressed to learn that
he was not his usual dynamic self. A rest of several months and treatment for a heart condition seemingly were restoring him to good health.
but shortly after returning to his office a sudden and final attack claimed
our Brother while he was seated at his desk in his office.
Funeral services "vere conducted in the presence of a large gathering
of friends and Masons in All Saints Episcopal Church, Beverly Hills,
by its ministers-Dr. Kermit Castellanos. who ser\'ed this Grand Lodge
as Grand Chaplain during Brother Harwell's year as Grand Master. and
by Dr. G. Herbert Smith. Brother Harwell was an active member of
All Saints Church, serving for many years as a vestryman and he had
rendered distinguished service to the Episcopal Diocese of Los Angeles.
Frank Harwell. Jr. was horn October 4, 1898 at La Grange. Georqia,
the son of Judge Frank Harwell, Sr. and Ruth Lovejoy Harv.1 ell. He
attended the pubtic schools in La Grange and then went on to the University of Georgia. There, he was a member of Kappa Alpha Fraternity
and of the class of 1920. Following graduation, he enlisted in the United
States Infantry and served as a Second Lieutenant during World War I.
Following military service, he married Virginia Boston of Marietta,
Georgia, who survives him together with three married daughters and
six grandchildren who were his great delight. He is also survived by two
brothers and two sisters.
Frank Harwell's business career "vas in investment banking-first in
New York City, then in Atlanta, Georgia, and, from 1927 on, in Los
Angeles, where he was well known and respected in the investment
banking world. At the time of his passing , he was a general partner in
the firm of Lester Ryans & Co.. with which firm he had been associated
for a long number of years.
Shortly after coming to Los Angeles, Frank Harwell evinced an
interest in Masonry which was to play an important part in his life for
the remainder of his years. He became a Master Mason in Beverly Hills
Ledge No. 528 on April 23, 1929 and, after service in several stations.
was elected Master for the year 1935. In September, 1936. he was
appointed Inspector and continued as such until April. 1948 when he

28

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

was appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer. It was only natural that he
would advance for his ritualistic and administrative abilities pointed him
out as one of our leaders-then , and of the future. Special committee
ass ignments and service on the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes
of California also claimed his attention.
In October, 1950, Frank Harwell was elected Junior Grand Wardi:-n
and he advanced each succeeding year until October. 1953 when he
became our 88th Grand Master. A reading of the 1954 Proceedings
provides evidence of the year of service rendered and of the progress
made under his leadership. Among other things . we are deeply indebted
to him for the authorization to the Correspondence Committee to begin
the publication of the California Freemason as the official quarterly magazine of the Grand Lodge of California.
Appointed to the Finance Committee upon completion of his term as
Grand Master. he continued to render distinguished service for eleven
yea rs as its chairman and, during the same period. as a member of the
In vestment Committee of Grand Lodge .
A member of the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies. and of other
organizations, Frank Harwell chose to devote his talents to his Blue
Lodge and to Grand Lodge. Possessed of a keen mind. his counsel could
always be depended on. His was the faculty of giving full attentio n to
whatever the problem might be which was placed before him. Willing
to disagree. if need be, his reply would always be in the interest of the
fraternity as he saw it. Constructi\'e in his thinking . his labors bore fruit
for our fraternity.
Yes. we will miss his keen insight, his sage advice. his jovial camaraderie and, above all. his great love and respe ct for the traditions. the
tenets and the landmarks of Masonry, plus his willingness to do everything in his power to uphold them in all their strength and glory.
Frank Harwell was a staunch American who served his country; a
devoted husband and father to whom love for his family was paramount;
a master craftsman who learned well the use of the Plumb. Square and
Level; a Master who wielded the gavel in true Masonic fashion; a
Brother who understood a nd practiced the teachings of Masonry.
At the 195"1 Communication, the Grand Chaplain , the Very Reverend Kermit Castellanos. chose as the subject for the dev otional service,
these words. "The Spirit of Man is the Candle of the Lord.'' And it
was about the spirit of man upon which he dwelt in his remarks-the
spirit of man in his personal life. in his business life. in his fraternal life.
in his spiritual life. And it was pointed o ut that you cannot examine the
spirit of man - but you can sense it.
So it was with Fra nk Harwell. He was a man of spirit. It was not
difficult to sense the na turalness of the spirit which was within himthe spirit which motivated him to furnish his brethren with the example
of a true Master Mason- a Master Mason whose spirit remains with us
as a candle to help light the path of Masonry for all time to come.

LEON 0. WHITSELL

Grand Master-1938
Born
July 10, 1876
Centerville, Iowa

Died
February 25. 1966
San Franc isco. California

30

PROl.EE DINGS OF THE

EULO GY
LEON OTTO WHIT SELL
By L. HAROL D ANDER SON
I am indeed indebt ed to our Most Worsh ipful Grand Maste
r to be
privile ged to devote a few mome nts in a servic e of loving
memo ry and
deep apprec iation for our Past Grand Maste r Leon Otto
Whits ell. H_e
was a great and good man: a much beloved friend: a dedica
ted Mason ic
Brothe r; and a true Christ ian gentle man. When I first becam
e acquai nted
with Brothe r Whits ell. he had recent ly been appoin ted to
the Califo rnia
Railro ad Comm ission (now the Public Utiliti es Comm ission
) by Gover nor Friend W. Richar dson in 1925. He later succee ded
to the positio n
as presid ent of the Comm ission. Durin g his term on the
Comm ission he
did many fine things \Vhich were of an inspira tional nature
to me and
which were to serve me in good stead when I was privile
ged to follow
in his footste ps as a memb er of that Comm ission in 1945
on appoin tment
by the Mos t Worsh ipful Earl Warre n . now Chief Jus tice
of the United
States , and later as presid ent by electio n of the Comm ission.
Brothe r Whits ell was born in Center ville. Iowa, July l
0. 1876. He
attend ed school s in southe astern Iowa where he receiv
ed most of his
educat ion. He was a dmitte d to the Iowa Bar in I 900 and
soon came out
to Idaho where he practic ed law for many years. He
partici pated in
many impor tant leg al counci ls and served in a legal capaci
t~ with t.he
Wes tern Federa tion of Miners in Idaho. Later he was
associ ated with
the noted attorn ey. Claren ce Darro w, in the Color ado mining
trials which
led to his becom ing involv ed in the Masab a Range troubl
es dealin g with
10.000 strikin g miners in Minne sota. Brothe r Whits ell
was a fearles s.
determ ined man and had a great many dange rous a nd
thrillin g experi ences while involv ed in these legal disput es.
After a numbe r of years of strenu ous law practic e he decide
d on a
quiete r, more peacef ul life and took up some acreag e in
the then new
Truck ee-Ca rson-N evada irrigat ion projec t. From 1910
co 1915 he p10neered on that frontie r. Follow ing this period of hard work,
he went to
Orang e Count y. Califo rnia. where he began the cultiva
tion of orange s
and lemons in the Villa P ark area. He soon becam e active
in Orang e
Count y affairs and served on the Board of Super visors
of that coun_ty
until 1925 when he was appoin ted to the Califo rnia Railro
ad Comm ission.
In 1938 he was electe d Grand Maste r of Mason s in Califo
rnia and
gave a year of excell ent leader ship in that high office. During
that year
he visited many Lodge s throug hout the state. Follow ing
the sudde n and
untime ly death of our then Grand Secret ary, Brothe r John
Which er. in
April 1941 , Brothe r Leo n was prevai led upon to hold that
post for an
interim until Octob er 17, 1941, when our late Brothe r. Past
Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilso n , assum ed that impor tant respon sibility
. For many

GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FORNI A

31

years he served as chairm an of the Grand Lodge Histor
y Comm ittee.
He s pent many years of travel and resear ch in collect ing
the materi al for
the four volum e One Hundr ed Years of Freem asonry
in Ca liforn ia,
published in 1950. One time he was asked why he did
not spend more
time with the many advan ced orders of Mason ry to which
he belong ed.
H is answe r was, " I would rather spend my ti me with
the Blue Lodge
where so many of the 'rank and file' memb ers are workin
g." The Blue
Lodge mea nt much to him . He was a good schola r and a popula
r lecture r.
He dealt mostly with the Gold Rus h and Mothe r Lode areas
and many
of us will never forget some of the fantas tic stories he related
. Anyon e
who was ever in his library soon realized his wide range
of interes ts. H e
was greatl y interes ted in the library of our new Ma son
ic T em ple a nd
was anxiou s to see it greatl y expan ded.
H is widow presen ted to the Grand Lodge Librar y and Museu
m several items from his collection. Amon g them were a. numbe
r of books .
some of which are especi ally rare and valua ble. Also
presen ted were
his Grand Maste r's apron and a gavel (a gift from the
I OOth Mason ic
Distri ct) which he used in presidin g over Grand Lodge
and in raising
of his two sons. Thit gavel was a.lso used at 279 meetin
gs by Most
Worsh ipful Brothe r Whits ell and in openin g the Grand
Lodges of Arizona, Nevad a and Orego n. Some of us here today think
that to the
Grand Lodge Librar y would be a. good place to direct
our Leon 0 .
Whitsell memo rial gifts. Amon g other things which he helped
to accom plish was the rebuild ing of the old M asonic Templ e in t he
Mothe r Lode
town of Colum bia. He was also instrum ental in startin g the
Hig h T welve
Club which has becom e a very s uccess ful noon lunche on
club for Masonic brethr en. He also helped revive the order of E. Clamp
us Vitus , an
organi zation interes ted in preser ving the history of the FortyNiner days.
Word s are inadeq uate and time is not sufficient to expres
s our affection and respec t for this good man . While he was a domin
ant person ality
and someti mes bluste ry and excitab le, he was one of the
bigges t hearte d
men I have ever known and fu ll of tender ness and compa
ssion.
Brothe r Whitsell \\'as a devote d family man. He was marrie
d to Betty
L. M cKaig in Ottaw a. Iowa, in 1913. T o them were born two
sons. Dr.
Leon J. Whits ell. a practic ing neurol ogist here. and Rober
t H . Whits ell.
with the Resea rch Depar tment on the Rivers ide campu s of
the U nivers ity
of Califo rnia. His wife , Betty, predeceased him .
In 1951 he was marrie d to M rs. Elois Grove of Stockt on
. who a long
with the two sons and six grandc hildre n . are his immed
iate s ur\'ivo rs.
One is remind ed of the words spoken of King David when
he came to
the end. "Afte r he had ser ved his genera tion. he fell on
sleep." While
th is is an hour of sorrow . it is also time for gratitu de and
thankf ulness .
for a life well lived and crown ed with victory .
PRAY ER

0 T hou all wise and loving Fathe r, Thou in whom we live and move

32

PROCEED INGS OF THE

and have our being , speak to us now. May we hear that still small voice
which brings comfort and consolati on to our hearts. We thank Thee for
the illustriou s life of our Brother Whitsell . Our grief is made easier
because we know that he has entered into rest with Thee. Thus with
joy shining through our tears we commend our Brother to that Grand
Lodge on high from whose bourn no traveler returns. Amen.
PAST MASTER S. MASTER S AND WARDEN S
OF CONSTIT UENT LODGES

Lodge
Date of
Lodge
Date of
Name
No.
Death
No.
Name
Death
Gilmore,
2
Berna1·d E.... 5-29-66 101 K cskcys, Ra lph H ........... 5- 8-66
2 Riley, William 0 ... . . .. 10- 3-65 106 Chamber lain, Eugene B. 7- 5-65
3 Malcolm, Ke nneth L . . 9-11-65 111 Ellis, Harold 0.. .. .... 2-18-65
3 McClain, Henry H... .11-12-65 111 J ewett, William F. ..
11-24-65
5 Byerrum , Charles H . .. 6-18-65 113 Cassinell i, Henry A .. ..... 1-24-66
8 Temple, Henry H .. ..
1-22-66 120 Nusbaum . Mark H....
1-16-66
8 Ware, Wallace E .. .... .... 3-18-66 122 Hook, Theodore IL ..... ... 9-30-65
9 Andross, Albert K. ..... ... 7-24-65
127 Behrens, John .
3-13-66
9 Lewis, Abram W.
... 8- 3-65 127 Stamm, Hugo H. W. . . 5-23-66
10 Bobb itt, Harry ... ......... 1- 2-66 127 von Stadcn, George ...... 8- 3-65
12 Hamilton , Robert . .
10- 1-65 131 Fairchild . J ohn H.... ...... 5-28-66
16 Bunk, Donald J . ......... 12- 3-65
131 Jones, David W .
.... 8- 5-65
16 Geisendo rfer. George R. 6-20-66 131 Mills, Ev arts F. ........ . 9-17-65
16 Oest. Gl enn C..... . .. . 3-19-66 134 Bassford. George S., Jr. 1-28-66
19 Garrison, Noel H .. ........... 11-22-65
134 Tubhs. Chester H . ........ 4- 7-66
20 Milne, Frank L .
. 5-10-66 135 Druns ficld, George ........ 10-31-65
20 Scott, James .. . ....... 9-17-65 135 Sayles, Wallace A.
3-10-66
22 Mandich, Spiro ... .......... 11- 1-65
139 North, Milo J .. ... ..... ....... . 11- 2-65
26 Hickman, Ca rlton M ..... 5-27-66 141 Marvin, Ralph T ............ 1- 8-66
27 Conner, George E.... ..... . 6- 5-66 143 Holmes, George H.
7- 4-65
32 Young, Walter N.......... 4-24-66
144 Benson, James C ......... ... 10-17-65
37 Orr, Charles H . ... ...
8-13-65 145 Millmeis ter, William ... 11- 15-65
37 Ward, George S..... ...... 5- 8-66 146 Hopper, Elmer M ........... 11-22-65
38 Cardiff, George H... .
4-26-66 147 O'Connor , William S .. . . 6-22-66
40 Spring, Frederick C ..... .11-21-65 149 Clark. Ivor B....... .. ....... 10-22-65
41 Nelson, Conrad 0 ........ 5-13-66 150 Youles, Arthur J ......... 9-16-65
41 Wright, Winfred M...... . 6- 1-66
166 Zwe ifel, Fred A ......
3-11-66
45 Griffin, Eustace R. .......... 10-10-65 167 Griffin. Randolph ....... 11-10-65
45 Thunen. Charles A. .. 11-27-65 168 Boynton, Ira A ....... .... . 2- 6-66
55 Murray. John H. ... .. .. 9-21-65
168 J cnssen, Lloyd C.
9- 8-65
58 Gerber, John A ...... ......... 2-26-66 169 Luce, Donald Q. .......... 6-27-66
60 Fletcher, Carl E ....... ...... 4-19-66 169 Murray, George C...
.. 5- 9-66
64 Wahrhaft ig, Solomon .. 11-24-65
175 Richey, John R. ........ 12-26-65
70 Boughton . William G.... 1-30-66
179 Dearing. John D., Sr... .10- 17-65
76 Mecham, Archie L .. ....... 10- 2-65 179 Gabbert. Volney E . .. ... 4- 7-66
76 Whiteside, Sydney A ..... 8- 5-65 179 Galloupe , Herbert F ..... .. 4- 7-66
79 Harvey, Russell E... .
2-16-66 181 Watson , Thomas H ...... ... 11- 6-65
79 Sinclair, William R. .. ...... 2- 9-66 181 Watt, William ................ 9-11-65
81 Laugenou r, Forrest F ..... 6- 1-66 182 Lindsay, Milton J ........... 2- 4-66
81 R eiff, Paul W .......... ...... ... 5-18-66 185 Caylor, John J ...... ........... 8-24-65
84 Stolzman . Hugo C ........... 12-24-65 187 Carr, Graydon B. .. ...... 11 -2 1-65
87 Graff, Frederick .... . ... 11-25-65 190 Silver, Lcvatty ................ 6-25-66
91 Luce, Raymond E ...........10- 4-65 192 Austin, Id S ........ . . .. . 9-15-65
95 Jones, Thomas W ........... 10-25-65 194 Jones, Leo D ............ ......... 12-14-65
98 Cramer, Morris L .... . 1-13-66 198 Lembke, August J ......... 11-15-65
98 Walter. Boyd .... ........... 12-22-65 198 Shepherd , Warren A ..... 3- 4-66
99 Hughes, Scott . ................ 7-16-65 200 Mciver. James, Jr...... ..... 8- 7-66
99 Ornberg, Arne N .. ...... ... 10-15-65 202 Miller, Charles R. ........... 4-17-66

GUANO LODGE OP CALIFOUN IA

33

Lodge
Date of
Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
No.
Death
Name
Death
204 Gunnell, H arold C......... 4- 9-66 300 Grassle, Francis K ......... 5- 5-66
205 Morgan, George G ......... 4- 5-66 300 Simmond s, Lee S............. 4-28-66
205 Wilken, Charles C ........... 5- 1-66 302 Walker, James A. ........... . 8-14-65
206 Baldwin, William P ....... 7- 9-65 303 Benton, Hayden W ......... 1-18-66
207 Bonser, J ack C................. 1- 2-66 303 Wilcox, Harold F .............10-23-65
208 Edwards, Perry .............. 4- 6-66 308 Haugh, Bryan D ............. 8-28-65
208 Meader, Hale .................. 1-26-66 310 McGuire, James B ........... 9- 3-65
209 Nelson, Albert ............. .. 6- 3-66 310 Thompson, Lester .......... 5-28-66
210 Kocher, Edwin H ... ........ 4-20-66 314 Chaney, John A. ..............11-19-65
215 Benson, Frederick J ....... 9- 4-65 315 Gould, Arthur C ............. 4-21-66
215 Ingold, Oswald G........... 5-29-66 316 Chaney, Charles R. ........ 3-12-66
215 K.nowlan d, Joseph R. .... 2- 1-66 316 Linenbac h, John J ......... 3-18-66
216 Jaffa, Edward M ........ ..... 9-13-65 318 Korling, Edward W ....... 6-28-66
217 Ruthven, Sidney ............ 9- 7-65 319 Harvison , Hale H ...........
9-65
229 Thomas, Walter S ........... 10- 6-65 319 Simmons , Ernest N ......... 109- 4-65
230 Higgins, Harold H ........... 10- 8-65 322 Butcher, Dean L ............. 3-27-66
232 Tucker, Henry E .............10-30-65 323 Farris, R oscoe W ............. 4-26-65
233 Clement, Henry J ........... 2-18-66 323 Peck, Clarence W ........... 5-31-66
235 Demick, Charles F ......... 2-28-66 324 Eliot, Edward L ............... 5- 8-66
235 Lowell, Walter R. ............ 2- 7-66 324 Stoddart , Bert ................ 117-65
236 Hawkins, Harvey M ....... 1-28-66 325 Wellingto n, Kenneth W. 8- 4-65
236 Jensen, Elmer C ............. 9- 8-65 328 Lowen, Clyde D ............... 5-10-66
237 Johnson, Fra nk R. .......... 2-22-66 328 Steel, Arthur B ............... 10-16-65
240 Walker, Earl T ................. 3-15-66 329 Jacot, Edgar H ................. 5- 1-66
241 Cook, Walter A ............... 1-15-66 330 Whitman, William M ..... 8-20-65
242 Chibos, Joe ...................... 1- 2-66 333 Squires, Albert C ........... 7-28-65
242 Moore, Jethro C ............... 2-16-66 333 Thoringto n, Cecil R. ...... 1-21-66
242 Sudduth, Joseph B ......... 3-10-66 336 Jenny, Rudolph .............. 6-22-66
244 Clothier, Edwin A. .. ..... ... 5- 4-66 341 Teasdale, Lawrenc e W ... 11-15-65
244 Lindblad , Harold B ......... 2-11-66 344 Rosenber g, Myron K .....10-27-65
245 Bullard, Lyrel D ............. 9-17-65 356 Van Atta, Leon P ........... 1-25-66
246 Nisbet, James .................. 8-15-65 357 Gallaghe r. William L ..... 5-25-66
247 Jones, Earle M ................. 2- 4-66 357 Thomas, George 1........... 11- 4-65
247 KeUas, Edward L ........... 2-22-66 358 Gockley, Charles E ......... 11-15-65
255 Shore, Richard E ............. 2-14-66 360 McElvain . Robert B ....... 1-15-66
260 Rudloff, George A ........... 10- 3-65 362 Robson, George S ........... 12-21-65
261 Abel, John F ..................... 2- 7-66 363 Cuddeba ck, John E......... 8-14-65
261 Aberneth y, Ronald R. .... 5-28-66 363 Smith, Earl D .................
.. 7-24-65
261 Witter, H arry B .............. . 2- 6-66 367 Reid, John R. .................... 3-17-66
268 Gompertz , Walter A. ...... 9-17-65 368 Campbel l, Arthur ..........
8-65
273 Burke, Charles F ............. 9- 6-65 368 Nash, William F., Jr....... 112- 5-66
274 Lierly, Lorenzo W ...... ..... 7-24-65 368 Neel, Jordan S .............. .. . 3- 2-66
277 Bohl, Herold .................... 11- 8-65 368 Stephens on, Dwight W .
278 Selph, Ewald E ............... 1- 6-66 370 Wood, William E ......... .. 7-17-65
1-23-66
282 Boone, Merritt L .... ......... 3-20-66 371 Forrest, Lester E ............. 7-1 7-65
283 Hallock, James W ........... 10-28-65 375 Morris, Harry E.............. . 99-65
286 Brooks, Truman ............ 6-23-66 377 Gaines, George .......... .... 9-20-65
286 Green, John P ............. .... 8-10-65 378 Robinson , George D....... 2-20-66
286 West, Chauncey W .... .... 3- 9-66 379 Schumac her, Harry B ...
287 Boothe, Roy ................ ... 8-13-65 385 Scruggs, Eldredge C. W. 12-29-65
4-30-66
288 B ell, James H ................... 11-15-65 385 Sowers, Wesley W
4-18-66
290 Lawler, Oscar ........... .. .... 1- 3-66 387 DeArmon d, Harold...........
H . ... 4- 5-66
291 Blanchar d, Eliot M. . ... 7-20-65 387 Simmons, Louis A...... .10- 6-65
291 Butcher, Richard H ..... 3-16-66 388 Durhan, Joseph C ......... 5- 8-66
291 Hardison , Allen C .. . . . 7- 7-65 389 Harvey, James J ......
. 1- 4-66
293 Feldner, William F . .
6-10-66 389 H ewitt, John ................. 7-10-65
293 Thompso n, Lewis W ...... 3-30-66 389 McClure, Roy ................. .. 7-21-65
293 Thompso n, Martell E ..... J 2- 4-65 391 Rigmaide n, Gennan ...... 4-12-66
293 Whitsell, Leon 0 ............. 2-25-66 392 Berger, Walter L .... - ....... 6-17-66
299 Scott, Oliver D ... :............. 1-19-66 392 Reynolds , William A ...... 1-24-66

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Date of
Name
No.
Death
392 Sawyer, Perry E ... .......... 9-24-66
394 Alexander, Ralph H ....... 10-10-65
395 Drake, Estell G ...... ......... 12-22-65
395 Gotobed, George S ......... 2-11-66
396 Condon, Wilbert S ......... 4-30-66
396 Nelson, Edwin G ............. 5-29-66
397 Oliver, Clayton IL ...... ... 1-20-66
399 Sontheimer, Urban A ..... 2- 9-66
400 Hawken, Samuel L ......... 4-20-65
400 Flagg, George B .............10-15-65
401 Dopp, Eugene H ............. 11-11-65
403 Snook, Charles W........... 7-23-65
405 Hamilton, Frank I... ........ 11-26-65
405 Suppe, Edward H ........... 3-28-66
405 White, Homer C ...... .... ... 2-24-66
406 Rope, Leon E ................. .. 6- 6-66
407 De Burn, Raynor ..... ....... 9-25-65
408 Nord, Henry J .. .... .......... 11-11-65
409 Ballengee, Milton E. ...... 1-12-66
410 Sargent, George L .. ...... .11-27-65
412 Young, Thomas ! ............. 4- 9-66
415 Bagley, Charles L ........... 7- 9-65
419 Cordes, Herman F ........... 11-29-65
420 Lowe, Walter A. .............. 11-18-65
421 Hannington Horace ..... ... 5-18-66
4.21 Hardin1• Louis B............. 4- 1-66
423 Chisnau,
William ............ 2-12-66
424 Burnett, Charles L .........11-22-65
425 Cravath, Albert B ........... 5-29-66
425 Williams, Walter M ....... 5-22-66
427 Carlisle, Earnest 0 .........10-17-65
429 Ward, Ernest H ............... 8-31-65
430 Briegel, Doyle R. ............ 5-28-66
431 Fraser, William F ........... 3-17-66
437 Miller, Joseph .................. 1-18-66
440 Nonnan, William E ......... 4-28-66
440 Taylor, Edwin C ............ . 4-12-66
440 Worster, George E ......... 1-12-66
441 Calhoun, Samuel W....... 2- 5-66
441 Crawford, Seth M ........... 11-13-65
441 Nickell, Grover W ........... 8-28-65
442 Fisher, George W ........... 1-22-66
442 McQuilken, J ohn ............10-21-65
447 Guyan, J ohn R. .............. 3- 1-66
450 Daugherty, Hugh C ....... 4-23-66
450 Held, Kalman .................. 5-24-66
450 Thompson, Walker A. .... 2-20-66
454 Block, Wilhelm, F ........... 9-15-65
454 Swan, Thomas W ........... 1-17-66
458 Hope, John T ................... 7-13-65
459 Trette, Orville B., Sr..... 3- 3-66
462 Pound, Elmer R. .............. 2-12-66
463 Stewart, Robert B ........... 5-23-66
463 Walker, James H ............. 4- 3-66
464 Gleason, Pearce .............. 3- 1-66
466 Wilkes, Charles R. .......... 2-27-66
468 L'Hommedieu,
William P ....................... 11- 8-65
470 Hannan, George A. ........ 1-23-66
470 Pockman, Leonard T..... 8- 1-65

Lodge
Date of
Name
No.
Death
471 Chase, Horace W ............. 6- 1-66
475 Dillon, Paul R. ................ 9-19-65
477 Stephens, Lew is F .... ..... 11 -26-65
479 Boschken, Joseph C....... 10-22-65
479 Simpkins, Howard D ..... 1-17-66
480 Scholtz, Edward J ........... 1- 4-66
481 Mayers, J oseph. L ... ........ 11-25-65
484 Brantley, Hube1t E. ........ 3-13-66
484 Jacobson, Joseph M ....... 5- 3-66
484 Johnson, George T ......... 2-19-66
489 Parkinson, Roy H ........... 3- 3-66
489 Taylor, Virgil F ........ ...... 4-16-66
491 Choice, Nicholas B ......... 6-26-66
491 Oliver, Harry W ............. 3- 4-66
492 Akin, Cyrus A. ....... ......... 1-25-66
492 Baisley, Starr H ............. 3-27-66
492 Hill, Nathaniel M .......... 1-14-66
493 Best, Cyril F ..................... 8-26-65
493 Koch, Frank L ................. 9-22-65
495 Markuse, Monroe ! ......... 9- 9-65
497 Gracie, Albert E ............. 7- 8-65
499 Fingado, Albert E ........... 3-29-66
501 Smith, Eugene L ............. 11-17-65
501 Tunison, William J ......... 9-25-65
501 Warwick, Ralph .............. 6-30-66
502 Muller, Harry L ............... 5-21-66
502 Scragg, Herron ................ 12-1 8-65
503 Laux, Laverne L. L ....... 10-18-65
509 Dankers, William J., Jr. 3- 9-66
509 McCauley, Morris J ....... 5- 2-66
511 Schmitz, Anton ................ 11-15-65
515 Smith, William J ............. 10-15-65
515 Wadsworth,
William R., Jr............... 4-18-66
517 Seller, John A ................. 10-14-65
518 Davidson, Paul J ...... ....... 4- 5-66
519 Bowman, William H ....... 4-19-66
519 Geyer, William S .... ....... 12-29-65
519 Griffith, Homer 0 ........... 7-27-65
520 Mallerstein, Harry J ....... 10- 5-65
521 Ahrnke, Hans P ............... 4-11-66
522 Lewis, Rohert.................. 9-13-65
523 Bailey, Edward E........... 4- 3-66
523 Hutchinson, Paul E ......... 2-15-66
523 Wilmoth, Canden L ....... 7-23-65
525 Draper, George L ........... 8- 2-65
526 Dethlefsen, Thomas A ... 12- 8-65
526 Mishkind, Harry L ......... 1-17-66
526 Reinherz, Bernard !.. ..... 3-17-66
528 Gebhart, Joseph A. ........ 5- 1-66
530 Hunter, Bertram H ......... 7-24-65
530 Jenkins, Joseph A ........... 1-23-66
531 Aston, Alfred H ............... 6-12-66
531 Brannan, William S.... .. . 6-10-66
531 Davidson, Edmund S ..... 6-30-66
532 Walburn, Walter J ......... 3-26-66
537 Blanchard, James E ....... 3- 6-66
538 Brown, William E ........... 2-14-66
540 Solemon, Bryce M......... 8-30-65
540 Stenger, Lawrence E..... 4-28-66

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
542 Webster, Homer B ......... 3-20-66
545 Larsen, Ralph V.......... ... 7-29-65
547 Foster, Aubrey M ........... 1-13-66
548 Leonard, Calvin H ......... 11-24-65
552 Hamner, Keith ................ 1-19-66
557 Wilkens, John H ............. 4-24-66
559 Richards, Frank L ........... 4-18-66
560 Paul, Charles E ...............12-26-65
561 Konrad, William.............. 4-17-66
562 Dore, Murray, W. B ....... 8-29-65
563 Moor, Hugh E ................... 11- 1-65
566 Shoemaker, Clyde C ....... 12-14-65
567 Kethley, James H ........... 12-11-65
568 May, George E ............... 4-15-66
568 Willoughby,
William F .. Sr. .............. 6-20-66
569 Knott, Clifford B ............. 6-28-66
570 Hemphill, Hubert A ....... 4-19-66
571 Spiegel, Charles C ......... 8-22-65
572 Smith, Steadman G ....... 9- 3-65
572 Willard, Jay D ................. 7-27-65
574 Cann, Thomas H ............. 1-31-66
574 Williams, Millard F ....... 8- 2-65
575 Green, Grover C ............. 6-19-66
591 Noden, Charles ................ 10- 3-65
591 Ramsey, John C .... ........... 1- 3-66
591 Thornton, Frank S ......... 3-16-66
592 Jensen, John P ................. 10-17-65
592 Livingston, Arthur H ..... 11-11-65
594 Hystad, George M ...........11- 9-65
598 Jannusch, John V ........... 5- 1-66
598 Leck, William E ............. 5-10-66
599 Holtz, William F ............. 7-12-65
600 Stitz, Edward M ............. 7- 4-65
602 Goodfellow, Walter V ... 3-15-66
603 DuBois, Herbert H ......... 8- 6-65
605 Thompson , Jay E ............. 2-24-66
608 Lind, Emil J ...... ............... 5- 1-66
612 Naugle, Melvin 0 ........... 10-28-65
612 Platt, Charles R. ............ 1- 9-66
612 Smith, Moses L ...... ......... 7- 7-65
612 Smith, R. Thornton.... . 7-31-65
612 Coffland, Charle s M ....... 7- 8-66
615 Grinager, Henry C .........12-19-65
615 Moon, Sidney C ........ .... 9-14-65
618 Garvey, Thomas C ......... 12-23-65
618 Rogers, Joseph E ............. 11-17-65
620 Rogers, Cecil J ........ ....... .. 8-15-65
622 Ellis, John M................... 11 -30-65
625 Gentry, Walte r R. .......... 4-23-66
627 Shaver, Fay R. ................ 4- 5-66
628 Roberts, Clarence L ....... 1-18-66
630 Reid, Cecil A ................... 7-29-65
630 Sherrills, Alexander ...... 7- 2-65

35

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
632 Bower, Paul E .... ............. 8- 15-65
636 Buelow, Albert A .. ......... 4-25-66
636 Knowles, Otis M ............. 3- 7-66
637 Gianelli, Albert E ........... 3-14-66
638 Henrick, Frederick T ..... 7- 2-65
638 Senger, George H ........... 2- 7-66
643 H edrick, Herbert W ....... 1-27-66
645 Hopper, Robert F ...........10-23-65
645 Looysen, Henry H ........... 6- 1-66
647 Robertson, Wylye P ....... 9-26-65
649 Marleau, Owen J ........... 12- 4-65
651 Christiansen, Robert... ...12-17-65
651 Hill, Frank D ................... 7-21-65
652 Percy, Leslie S ................. 3- 8-66
653 Banning, William A. H. 8-13-65
656 Blystone, Frank E ........... 9-23-65
657 Blair, Horace H ............... 7-23-65
659 Cameron, Gordon M ....... 2-19-66
661 Davis, John A. ................ 3- 8-66
661 Pyle, Karl!... .................... 7-14-65
662 Sanborn, Carl A ............. 8-31-65
663 Clark, Charles C............. 6-28-66
663 Kilgour, James H ........... 5-18-66
666 Pelsburg, William J ....... 3-11-66
669 Penberthy, William J ..... 4-15-66
669 Woodruff, Earl B........... 10-27-65
673 Bell, John A................ ..... 3-28-66
678 Hughes, Samuale J ....... 12-29-65
682 Knaggs, William A......... 2- 2-66
684 Colony, Myron W........... 10-17-65
685 Swanson, Peter M......... 4-19-66
687 Stilgebour, Edward B ... 10- 6-65
693 Burkett, Charles J ......... 1-12-66
695 Cresswell, Kenneth R. .. 6-18-66
703 Appelberg, Bror A. ........ 9-12-65
703 Herbelin, Marcel N ....... 4-12-66
703 Miles, Jame s L ............... 10-15-65
704 DeLeshe, M. Blaine........ 11- 7-65
708 Horne, Corwin D ............. 4-14-66
712 Bauer, George .................. 4-19-66
712 Lynch, Robert E....... ...... 10-10-65
720 Hoehn, John R. .............. 12- 6-65
724 Kyle, James 0 ................. 3- 8-66
738 Downs, Thomas D........... 3- 2-66
748 Wilkins, William H ....... 9- 2-65
750 Svenson, Harold W ......... 4- 8-66
756 Messer, Charles C ........... 5-31-66
763 Deeb, Joseph M ............. 12- 3-65
766 Renier, Chester G ...... ..... 7-13-65
774 P e ters, Charles M ., Sr... 10- 5-65
776 Bentley, Elmer A. .......... 4-28-66
784 Quiggle, Albert J ........... 7-14-65
796 Roser, Noel W., Sr......... 7-11-65
800 Carter, Evere t A. ............ 7- 4-65

T aps

At 12: 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :45 p.m.

36

l'W.OC~EDINGS

OP THE

AFTERNO ON SESSION -Monday, October 10, 1966
At 1 :45 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful John A. Dickson, Master
of Honolulu Lodge No. 409. The invocation was delivered by the Grand
Chaplain.

DISTINGU ISHED GUESTS
The following Grand Masters were received with private Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to
seats reserved for them:
M:.w:.MY RoN K. LINGLE,

Grand Ma ster of Masons in Illinois.
M.".W.".WI LBUR A. WELLBORN,

Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.

M:.w:.E. HAsKELL JottNs,

Grand Master of Masons in Washington .

M.".W.".FRANK LoGAR, JR.,

Grand Master of Masons in Nevada.
M:.w:.How ARo E . DoRsT,

Grand Master of Masons in Utah.

M:.w: .s. BARRY CAsEY,

Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.
The following distinguishe d guests were received with public Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master. and escorted to
seats reserved for them:
R:.w : .EowARD L. P1NE,

Deputy Grand Master of Nevada.
R.·.w. · .cLARENcE GRosHELL,

Grand Secretary of Utah.

v ... w ... GERALD I. CRAIG,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Arizona.
V." .W." .ALTON T. KAUFFMAN.

Grand Le.cturer of Idaho.
The following distinguishe d guests were received with public Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to
seats:
M." .W.".WJLLIAM F. HOLMAN,
Past Grand Master of Minnesota.
M:.w:.c. WHEELER BARNEs,

Past Grand Master of Colorado.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

37

M." .W.".STANTON YOUNGBERG,

Past Grand Master of the Philippines.
W ... WILLIAM J. EICHOR N,
Past Senior Grand Warden of fapan.
.S. A. SueERSKY,
Past District Grand Warden , South AfricaU nited Grand Lodge. of England.
W.".FELIX A. LENHART,
Past Grand Treasurer of Czechoslovakia.
During the course of the Annual Communica tion the Grand Master
from time to time called on various distinguishe d guests to address the
members of Grand Lodge. In addition to expressing his appreciation for
being present, each in his own way discussed Masonic subjects of interest. The talks were humorous, provocative and thoughtful. The Grand
Lodge responded with standing ovations following each of the messages.
On Monday afternoon Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith proudly
introduced his son, Gregory. probably the youngest Mason in a tte ndance, who received his Third Degree during the prior month. The Grand
Master expressed pride and happiness in his son becoming a Master
Mason and particularly because he was privileged to confer his son's
First and Third Degrees.
On Tuesday afternoon the Grand Master presented Brother John
M. Gordon, who gave the report of the Endowment Board. In presenting
Brother Gordon. the Grand Master stated that he was retiring as Chairman and expressed the appreciation and than ks of all Masons in California for his many years of service and devotion to the Fraternity and
to the Masonic Homes endowment program . He asked that this a ppreciation and thanks be extended to Brother G ordon's wife. Margaret,
who has been his able assistant. Following the report of the Committee,
the assembled delegates rose in appreciation .

w:

38

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

39

GRAN D MASTE R'S MESSA GE
MYRON E. SMITH, GRANO MASTER

tions, recomme ndations and conclusions. For convenience, a calendar of
events and copies of Proclam ations are attached to this report as exhibits.

My Brethren , welcome to the One Hundred Seventee nth Annual
Commun ication of the Grand Lodge of Californi a.

MEMOR IAL SERVIC E

"Stretch ing before us lies the coming year
as pure as snow,
Where no foot has set, fresh fallen from heav'n
to earth below;
We tremble: ere we tread on ought so fair,
and so unknown ,
And dare we, seeing not whereto it leads,
set out alone?
Go thou before, Great Guide and Spirit,
Counsell or Divine;
So shall we make no footprint s of our own,
But tread in thine."
Author unknown .
In this spirit, twelve short months ago we began in this place the new
Grand Lodge Year. And now we: gather 'round to review together the
events of the year, to survey the general condition of Masonry in this
jurisdicti on and to glean from our travels and experien ces new wisdom
for future years.
Ralph Waldo Emerson raised the: question in one of his essays :
"What is the best day of the year?" His answer: "Write: it on your
heart that every day is the best day of the year." We are meant to be
alive: all the time. and to make every day full and rich with promise, and
if today is not rich in experience, then tomorrow will be empty of any
hope or promise:.
Annivers aries are special days. So are days of annual conferen ce.
They bring to us perspective: and new vision. They remind us that time
is God's gift. The gift of life is a gift of time; it is a gift in time:; it is a
deposit in the: bank of God. And each of us each day receives the same
deposit: Twenty- four hours, no more no less. How precious it is! And
how fleeting! Man is responsib le for the stewards hip of time.
Stewards hip[ All of life is a stewards hip, a trust from God, for which
we are: accounta ble to the Great Architec t of the Universe . Our work
together as Masons is a special stewards hip, for through it we remind
one another that every man is a child of God and therefore of supreme
worth.
In humility, the passkey of spiritual life. I give you this annual report of Masonic stewards hip. Of necessity, it seeks to be succinct, pithy
and direct-t o summari ze and highligh t events, experiences, observa-

Fundam ental to all Masons is our belief in the immortality of the
soul. Each of us must recogniz e that, here and now. we are a part of
eternity. During the year we have been saddene d at the loss of many of
our brethren who were: called to the Great Grand Lodge: on High. But
we know that their spirits live on in " that house: not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens. " Our lives have been made more: meaning ful by
the fact that, for a little while, they walked with us and we: shall ever be:
inspired by the memory of them. To emphasiz e the spiritual concept of
Masonry . I asked our Grand Chaplain and the Chairma n of our Necrology Committ ee to participa te together in the Memorial Service this
morning. We are grateful to them for the lovely and beautiful tribute
they have presente d. And we express our gratitude for the inspiring
eulogies given by Leo E. Anderso n, L. Harold Anderso n and Guy B.
Mize in memory of three of their brother Past Grand Masters : Oscar
E. Lawler, Leon 0 . Whitsell and Frank Harwell, Jr.
APPRE CIATIO N
Great enterpris es require managem ent. No man can do such a task
alone. Many are engaged in it. Co-opera tion and togethern ess are fundamental in Masonry . We are: bound up together "in the bundle of life."
To the great aompany of Officers, Inspecto rs, Committ eemen, Past
Grand Officers, Masters, Warden s and Past Masters who compose the
Grand Lodge, I express deep apprecia tion for all their thoughtf ul courtesies and co-opera tion. A host of names could be given special mention.
Collectively, I thank one and all.
So vast and so great is the scope of the activities of the Grand Lodge
that an ever-incr easing degree of teamwor k is essential on the part of
the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, and the: Senior and Junior
Grand Warden s as your elective, progress ive line officers. In this respect,
the rapport has been superb and my heart goes out to Laurence E. Dayton, John F. Porter and Eugene S. Hopp, affectionately known as "Larry,
John and Gene," for their devoted service to the craft. It is my fervent
belief that. through the knowled ge and experien ce they have gained this
year, their leadersh ip will bring increased benefits to our Grand Lodge
each successive year.
APPOIN TMENT S
At the 1961 Annual Commun ication Grand Lodge adopted a report
by a Special Committ ee on Committ ee Structur e which obligated the
incoming Grand Master to appoint at least two new members to each
Grand Lodge committe e whose membership is seven or more and one

40

41

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRl\ND LODGE OP Ct'\LIPORNIA

new member to each committee whose membership is five (excepting
the Committees on Ritual. Taxation, Retirement Plan. Insurance and the
Constitutional Boards). It was also directed that these appointments be
in addition to the required appointment of a Senior and Junior Warden
to each Standing Committee. In addition, it was specified that no chairman of a committee should serve as chairman for an aggregate period
of more than ten years.
In the spirit and in the letter. I sought to implement this policy for
the first time in October. 1965. Almost without exception the affected
brethren responded graciously and rare was the instance in which a committeeman resisted replacement by a new appointee. In those few cases.
I reminded the brother that no man owns a Masonic Office and that the
office seeks the man.
In the application of the 1964 appointment legislation for the first
time, I have reached the conclusion that the formula adopted is too severe
and, if continued indefinitely, may deprive the Grand Lodge of needed
experience and wisdom in the committee personnel. Followed implicitly.
the rules will result in a complete change of committee membership during a span of three years, which I deem too drastic. Important as it is
to bring in new men, this should be accomplished on a more gradual but
nevertheless continual basis. To put the rules in better balance, therefore.
the following recommendation is made:

available to one who is searching the California Masonic Code
for the answer to a problem. I believe that our entire law should
be contained in one volume. I have no definite recommendation as
to how to proceed with such a project. I merely want to comment
at this time that, as time goes along, the need for modernization
of the California Masonic Code becomes more pressing."
To carry forward these objectives, I appointed this year a Special
Committee on Definition of Committee Responsibilities and Code Review
to:
"1. Define the duties and responsibilities of the various committees and boards of the Grand Lodge, including any necessary
job descriptions.
2. Clarify and correlate the language of the California Masonic Code for the purpose of eliminating duplications. contradictions and inconsistencies. so that it may be easily read and
understood by its users. particularly those without legal training.
The objective is not to change the basic law but to express it in
more understandable terms."
Recognizing that this task could not be completed in one year and
that two or three years' work would be involved, I asked Laurence E.
Dayton, John F. Porter and Eugene S. Hopp to serve with the others
appointed on the Committee. The project is well under way and good
progress has been made, but it is apparent that the work cannot be done
by correspondence alone and periodical conferences of the Committee
will be required. I therefore offer:

REcOMMENDATION No. I

I recommend that beginning in October. 1966. the incoming Grand
Master appoint at least one new member to every Grand Lodge Committee whose membership is seven or more and that to every Grand
Lodge Committee whose membership is five there be appointed at least
one new member in alternate years. all other aspects of the 1964 action
on committee structure to remain unchanged.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DEFINITION
COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CODE REVIEW
In his message at the 1965 Annual Communication, Grand Master
Theodore Meriam observed that "Definitions of the duties of each committee need yet to be refined before they can be submitted for legislative
action and inclusion in the California Masonic Code." Concerning the
Code itself. he said in his Observation No. 7:
"It has been my experience this year in much reading of the California Masonic Code that the time is rapidly approaching when
there should be an updating of our Code. Two things are necess~ry. One is to eliminate from the Code those items of duplication and of obsolescence that quite obviously need not be in the
Code. Secondly. our present Code refers, in many instances, to
Ross Digest. This former volume of ~asonk Law is not always

RECOMMENDATION No. 2

recommend that the incoming Grand Master be authorized to
appoint or reappoint a Special Committee on Definition of Committee
Responsibilities and Code Review, charged with the continuation of the
duties outlined above and that provision be made in the budget for inci·
dental expense of the Committee and for t,r avel of the members to a
minimum of four committee conferences during the year.
INSPECTORAL APPOINTMENTS
Under the law of our Grand Lodge it has been the duty and
responsibility of the Grand Master to appoint Inspectors of the various
Masonic districts. In making such appointments, I have considered the
recommendations of the Assistant Grand Lecturer for the particular
division and the Grand Lecturer, and in each instance did follow recommendations. although the final judgment has been mine. for which
I accept full responsibility.
In arriving at my decision, I have required that the Assistant Grand
Lecturer and the Grand Lecturer certify to me that the Brother recommended is in fact qualified in the ritual of the. several degrees. When it

42

PROCEED INGS OF THB

came to my attention that men were being recomme nded to me who were
not at the time proficient in the ritual of the three degrees. I re-emph asized the requirem ent of ritualisti c proficiency prior to appointm ent. If
a qualified Brother were not available in a given district, it has been my
expresse d willingne ss to designat e an Acting Inspecto r on an interim
basis. I have always held the office of Inspecto r in high esteem and
that a Brother must be qualified in the ritual before he is deservin g of
appointm ent as an Inspecto r.
During the year W. Ben Sorrells retired as Assistan t Grand Lecturer of Division 6 after many years of faithful service. I appointe d as
his successo r, and the man in my opinion best qualified, William H.
Price, a Past Master of Evergree n Lodge No. 259.
SUSPEN SIONS FOR NON-P AYMEN T OF DUES AND
ADVAN CE REMISS ION OF DUES
A study of the past ten years has revealed that 12,987 members of
the Lodges in Californ ia and Hawaii have been suspende d for nonpayment of dues and during the same period only 3,480 have been
restored to membership. The members suspende d represen t more than
all the brethren raised in a two year period.
To develop an increasin g awarene ss and concern, in March I wrote
to all Masters and Secretari es requestin g that each Lodge establish a
full time delinque nt dues committee charged with the responsib ility of
investiga ting every instance of delinque nt dues to the end that suspensions be reduced to a minimum. At the same time, I also cautione d against
unnecess ary advance remission of dues and called attention to the observation made by Past Grand Master Theodor e Meriam in his 1965
message when he said:
"A review of the members hip returns over the past several years
reflects a steady increase in the number of instances where the
Lodges are granting advance remission of dues to a dispropo rtionate number of their members ."
In the month of May, I notified the Lodges that a prelimin ary report
indicated there would be a loss in members hip this year and urged that
in each Lodge several brethren be asked to call on a delinque nt brother
before suspendi ng him for non-paym ent of dues.
As will appear from our Grand Secretar y's Report to this Annual
Commun ication, there is a net loss in members hip this year of 1,014
members. I firmly believe that more careful investiga tion and consider ation of the reasons for delinque ncy in dues and discussio n with the individual members involved will result in a decrease in suspensi ons for this
cause. To achieve this construc tive goal I propose:
RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 3

I recomme nd that legislatio n be adopted which would provide for

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORN IA

the establish ment of a year around delinque nt dues committee in each
Lodge to work closely with the Master and Officers in a continuin g
effort to reduce to a minimum suspensi ons for non-paym ent of dues.
ITINER ARY
As reflected in the calendar of events attached to this report. throughout the year there have been a host of ceremonies, visitation s and functions on the official itinerary . Without exceptio n, every effort was made
to accept all invitatio ns from those in authority for the dedicatio n of
public school buildings , the laying of cornersto nes of public schools and
other public buildings . In some instances it was necessar y that two teams
of officers conduct ceremon ies on the same day in different parts of the
jurisdiction. There is every indicatio n that the Grand Master's itinerary
will continue to expand each year.
The enthusias m with which the officers and members of the constituent Lodges have participa ted in events for and with the Grand
Lodge has been a constant inspiratio n. The warmth of hospitali ty on the
part of all of the Lodges where ceremonies took place has been wonderful and all are to be commen ded for their devotion to Masonry .
Visits to the more remote sections of the jurisdicti on were particularly inspiring , as was the opportun ity to conduct a ceremon y at a place
or in an area where the Grand Lodge had not been for many years, or
at all.
For the reassura nce of those of our members who may not be acquainted with the officers of the Grand Lodge, may we remind you that
each is a member of a constitue nt Lodge. As such, he welcomes the
opportun ity for 'Masonic fellowship whereve r it may be. Experien ce has
shown it to be particula rly warm in outlying areas. On every hand we
encourag e invitatio ns to your Grand Lodge Officers for fraternal visitations and ceremonies.
HAWAII

Although Californ ia chartere d Hawaiia n Lodge No. 21 in 1852, it
was not until 1878 that a Grand Master made an official visit to the
Islands. With the advent of improved transpor tation, annual visits to
our Island Lodges have long been customa ry. Each year the Grand
Master has returned with only the highest praise for our Island brethren and their devotion to Masonry . This year was no exception .
Mrs. Smith (Kay) , our son (Greg) , and daughter (Sondra ) found
that our trip to the Islands exceeded every expectati on. From the moment of our arrival, when we were greeted in tradition al Hawaiia n
manner with a total of thirty-fiv e beautiful floral leis placed upon our
shoulders, until the "Aloha" of our departur e, our brethren of the
Islands and their families were magnificent. In turn, each of our ten
Lodges on the four major islands. and the Honolulu bodies of the York
Rite, the Scottish Rite and the Shrine, De Molay, Job's Daughte rs and

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Rainbow Girls outdid themselves with their thoughtfulness and gracious
hospitality.
While all of the functions attended on the Islands are deserving of
special comment, I mention three in particular: The authentic Hawaiian
Luau prepared by our Junior Grand Steward, George Kahapea. and his
family at Honolulu Lodge No. 409 on July Ist, and two memorial wreath
ceremonies in which I participated - one at Punchbowl Cemetery in
Honolulu on Sunday, July 3rd, under the auspices of Hawaiian Lodge
No. 21, and the other sponsored by Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598 on
July 4th on the memorial superstructure erected above the sunken U.S.S.
"Arizona" in Pearl Harbor.
While in the Islands, I learned that some of our brethren there have
been giving thought to the possibility of undertaking the formation of a
Grand Lodge of Hawaii. Whether or when such a step might be feasible
was the subject of considerable conjecture. As a safeguard against hasty
or ill considered action on the part of three or more of the Lodges, I
asked that the Inspectors and delegates of the Island Lodges meet yesterday with the Chairmen of the Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy
and General Purposes, and Finance, and our seven elected Grand Lodge
Officers, for a briefing session on the burdens, duties and responsibilities
incident to formation of a Grand Lodge. Our hope is that the information shared will prove helpful to the Island Inspectors and delegates in
shielding their Lodges from over-zealous pleas for a separate Grand
Lodge until the day arrives, if it does. when the growth in membership
on the Islands might be sufficient to establish a Grand Lodge of Hawaii.
Meantime, we have urged that there be no hesitancy or reluctance in
seeking advice and guidance from the proper officers of our Grand Lodge
whenever needed or desired.
OTHER GRAND LoDGES

In keeping with the established custom of our Grand Lodge, fraternal visitations were made to our neighboring Grand Lodges by representatives of the Grand Master: Deputy Grand Master Dayton to
Colorado and Arizona; Senior Grand Warden Porter to Oregon; Junior
Grand Warden Hopp and Grand Secretary Siems to Washington; and
all seven of our elected Grand Lodge Officers to Nevada on the occasion of its Centennial Communication . Also, I attended the Grand Lodge
of Texas in company with our Grand Lecturer. Harold N. Richards. and
the Grand Lodge of Michigan with Grand Secretary Siems.
In addition. as is customary, the Deputy Grand Master, the Grand
Secretary and the Grand Master attended the Annual Conferences for
Grand Masters. Deputy Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries of North
America held in Washington, D. C.. in February. California was particularly honored when our former Grand Chaplain, The Right Reverend
lvol Ira Curtis. D.D .. now Bishop of the Western Washington Juris-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

45

diction of the Episcopal Church. was guest of honor and speaker at the
annual banquet attended by approximately a thousand. including many
governmental officials in the Nation's Capitol. We also take pride in
the re-election of Past Grand Master Guy B. Mize as a Director of The
George Washington Masonic National Memorial.
Early in the year a severe hurricane brought heavy damage to the
State of Louisiana in the vicinity of New Orleans. When a call for help
and assistance issued from the Grand Lodge of Louisiana, I caused the
sum of five hundred dollars to be forwarded to it from the Grand Master's Relief Fund. More recently, when an earthquake severely damaged
parts of Turkey, I responded on behalf of our Grand Lodge by authorizing the transmittal of two hundred fifty dollars to the Grand Lodge of
Turkey. In both instances. grateful acknowledgme nts were received.
On the occasion of the visit of Sir Allan Adair, the Assistant Grand
Master of the United Grand Lodge of England, and Lady Adair. in San
Francisco this year, I gave a dinner in their honor. attended by our
elective Grand Lodge Officers and our Past Grand Masters who reside
in San Francisco, and their ladies. It was a most delightful evening. In
his remarks, Sir Allan mentioned that next year will mark the 250th
Anniversary of the United Grand Lodge of England and that an invitation to its Communication would be forthcoming to our Grand Lodge.
The invitation now has been received and I deem it of utmost significance that California be represented. For this purpose there is offered:
RECOMMENDAT ION No. 'i

I recommend that the incoming Grand Master. accompanied by a
Grand Lodge Officer of his selection, be requested to attend the 250th
Communication of the United Grand Lodge of England and that appropriate provision be made in the budget for this purpose.
RESEARCH LODGES
In recent years it has been brought to my attention that the four
Research Lodges have followed different procedures in the preparation
of research publications. It also has been called to my attention that
heretofore a wide variety of correspondenc e has been carried on by
Research Lodges with Grand Lodges of other jurisdictions. some of
which has been burdensome to the other Grand Lodges.
Following consultation with Past Grand Master Arthur Paulsen ,
who sponsored the Research Lodges. and Grand Lecturer Harold N.
Richards. and to promote and correlate the work of the Research Lodges.
on March 29, I 966, I assigned to the Masonic Education Committee of
the Grand Lodge the following duties and responsibilities:
"1. To review all Research Lodge materials intended for publication (including research articles for Research Lodge bulletins). with authority to revise. delete. approve or disapprove;

46

PROCEED INGS OP THE

2. To review all correspo ndence contemp lated by Research
Lodges with Grand Lodges of other jurisdicti ons. with authority
to revise, delete or disappro ve; and to determin e how, when and
what Research Lodge correspo ndence shall be forwarde d to other
Grand Lodges; and
3. To regulate the display and sale of approved publicati ons
of the Research Lodges."
The four Research Lodges have accepted this program and co-operated splendid ly with the Committ ee on Masonic Educatio n. That this
procedur e may be continue d. there is now submitte d:
RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 5
I recomme nd that the foregoing directive of March 29, 1966, with
respect to Research Lodges be approved and the program establish ed
under it continue d in force and effect.

NEW LODGE S
As authoriz ed at our last Annual Commun ication, Constitu tion Ceremonies were conducte d for two new Lodges: Mar Vista Lodge No. 820
at Newport Beach on Novemb er I 9, I 965, and Frank S . Land Lodge
No. 819 in Glendale on Novemb er 20, 1965.
There were also two Institutio n Ceremon ies: Boron Lodge, U.D .. at
Boron on Novemb er 27, I 965, and Maccabe e Lodge, U.D .. at Rosemea d
on Decembe r I 5. I 965.
EXPEN DITUR E OF FUNDS
During the course of the year. it has become increasin gly apparent
to me that in the constitue nt Lodges much doubt and uncertain ty pr~
vails concerni ng the proper expendit ure of Lodge funds. Such matters
as the extent and frequenc y of expenses of officers for attendan ce at
dinners and meetings of District Officers' Associat ions and Boards of
Relief frequent ly give rise to problems for our Lodges. The available
sections of the Californ ia Masonic Code leave much to be desired, for
such guidepos ts as it contains are far from complete. I have been particularly concerne d by a question presente d by two Lodges which want
to know whether Lodge funds may be used to defray expenses of Inspectors for attendan ce at the Annual Commun ication of Grand Lod ge.
Apparen tly this question has not previous ly been passed upon. Inquiry
througho ut Southern Californ ia reveals that many Lodges long have
made it a practice to make substant ial contribut ions toward the expense
of their Inspecto rs when attendin g Grand Lodge, though our Code appears to contain no explicit authority for such use of Lodge funds. I
have been cautione d that to rule adversel y against the practice could
result in consider able hardship or inconven ience and might even prevent
some from attendin g Grand Lodge.
Those observat ions lead me to the conclusion that a compreh ensive

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

47

study and review of the whole subject of expendit ure of Lodge funds is
needed.
Added to this, I find that there also are areas of uncertain ty concerning the expendit ure of Grand Lodge Funds.
To illustrate , while the Finance Committ ee of the Grand Lodge is
charged with the responsib ility of preparin g an annual budget, once the
budget is adopted its duties cease and we seem to have no dear-cut
legislatio n governin g the proper expendit ure of the budgeted funds. The
funds of the Grand Lodge Me trust funds and their use should be regulated with precision and exactnes s. My attention has been directed to
inequities in the defraym ent of expenses of various committe emen when
attending Grand Lodge. Some committees, with apparent good reason,
schedule meetings during Grand Lodge Week with conseque nt reimburseme nt to their members of expenses incurred while attending Grand
Lod~e. while others do not.
When in Hawaii, I was confront ed with the necessity of approvin g
the expense account of an Officer's Coach for travel to a school of instruction on another island (even though such a school was held on his
own island) where he had been im·ited to attend upon the assuranc e
that he would receive reimburs ement. By contrast. I have been informed
that other Officers' Coaches travel equally far in Californi a to schools
of instructio n without reimburs ement.
In another area. a recent practice was brought to my attention which,
if carried to its logical conclusion. could result in a consider able increase
in the budget of this Grand Lodge.
An Assistan t Grand Lecturer approved and submitte d an invoice for
the expenses of a Past Grand Lecturer whom he had invited to a Division Conferen ce. When the invoice was question ed, it was learned that,
for the preserva tion of unity in the ritual, this was thought to be a proper
expense of the Grand Lodge. However . if such practice be continue d
across many years and if other committees and boards adopt a practice
of defrayin g the expenses of former Officers, Committ ee or Board members at their meetings , the resulting cost to the Grand Lodge could be
substanti al. Neverthe less, I authorize d payment of the charges.
With this backgrou nd, I submit:
RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 6

I recomme nd that the Finance Committ ee of the Grand Lodge be
requested to make a compreh ensive study and review of the whole subject of expendit ure of Lodge Funds and Grand Lodge Funds witho ut
being limited to the above illustratio ns and to submit its findings and
recomme ndations at the next Annual Commun ication.
Implicit in this recomme ndation is the fact that the committe e will
need to request assistanc e from other committe es and boards in developing its report. If budgetar y provision is required for meetings of the

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Finance Committ ee in preparin g its report, I recomme nd an appropri ate
provision.
DECISI ONS
During the year I found it necessar y to apply various sections of the
Californ ia Masonic Code to many factual situations. As these did not
involve the creation of new "case law'', but rather the applicati on of
existing law. there is no necessity to record them here.
Again, however , I want to express particula r apprecia tion to our
Assistan t Grand Lecturer s and to all Inspecto rs for invaluab le assistanc e
in bringing to my attention inquiries and question s concerni ng the application of our law.
CONDI TION OF MASON RY
Through out the jurisdicti on our Brethren continue to be concerne d
about members hip statistics , and properly so, for records reflect not only
a decrease in membership but an elevation in the average age of members. Encoura ging, however , are some indicatio ns that the average age
of applican ts for the degrees may tend to be somewh at lower than in
previous years.
While importan t, we should not put undue stress upon the subject
of members for the trend is not peculiar to Californ ia nor to Masonry
in particula r. Other Grand Lodges long have recorded far greater declines in members hip and even some churches have reported decrease s.
This year members hip in The Southern Californ ia-Arizo na Conferen ce
of the Methodi st Church declined from 265,387 to 263,943, a net loss
of 1,444; and in Northern Californ ia-Nevad a Conferen ce the same denominati on experien ced a similar decline this year from 130,788 to
130,149, a decrease of 639. The trend reflects, I believe, the momenta ry
preoccup ation of many people with material or transitor y interests, as
distinguished from the spiritual and eternal values of life. It illustrate s
the necessity of rededica ting ourselve s all the more earnestly to the practice out of the Lodge of the great moral and spiritual virtues inculcate d
in it.
The true estimate of the conditio n of Masonry is to be found in the
response of its members toward humanity 's crisis. That our world today
is not in good health is readily apparent . Its ills a re innumera ble and
many people are confused , uncertain and perplexe d. For some, the
dynamic developm ents of our age have produced a new intensity in their
faith in God. Others have reacted in the reverse and found their faith
ebbing away. Still others have drifted back and forth from faith to lack
of faith.
For us, as Masons, this is and should be a great time to be alive.
A period of crisis is a time of great creativity . It is under the s tress of
pressure s that the great creative advances of mankind have come. A
period of crisis invariabl y drives men back to fundame ntals. Superficial-

GRAND LODGE OP Cl\Ll t'ORNll\

19

ities will not do. And above all else a period of crisis demands our best.
During the early part of this year I emphasiz ed three factors that
make Masonry such a great institutio n: The devotion, the responsib ility
and the faith of our members . As the year progress ed I have come to
emphasiz e that which is at the very heart of Masonry : The word "love."
It is the great need of our day.
The condition of Masonry . the health of Masonry , is to be measured
and determin ed by the presence in the hearts and minds of its members
of love-lov e of God and love for their fellow men. By its presence
in our lives we are continua lly reminded of the spiritual nature of Masonry. In the words of Paul in First Corinthi ans, Chapter 13, from
which came the perambu lation of the second degree, if we have not love
we are " ... become as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal."
In the 12th Chapter of the Book of Judges. the Bible relates the story
of the Ephraim ites who, when they attempte d an escape over the Jordan
River, were challeng ed: "Say now Shibbole th." Because they" . .. could
not frame to pronounc e it right .•. " the Gileadite s knew them to be
enemies and the Ephraim ites perished at the hands of the Gileadite s.
For Masons and all mankind this is a day in which we must pronounce or perish. The word we must pronoun ce is love, a consumi ng
concern for one another, by radiating it in every waking moment of our
lives.
This is the challeng e before M asonry today. Most Masons are meeting that challeng e and, to that extent, the condition of Masonry in this
jurisdiction is good. I pray that every Mason may meet the challenge !
And, now, as we approach the conclusion of this Masonic year, I
thank you for tlie privilege of serving you. I pray for each and every
member that deep and abiding sense of love which comes from God and
commend each to the kind care. love and protectio n of all Master Masons
whithers oever dispersed .

~~
I
,, u~
Grand Master
The message was received with a standing ovation and was referred
by the Deputy Grand Master to the Committ ee on Distribut ion.
Followin g reference to the Committ ee on Distribut ion of the Grand
Master·s Recomm endation s. shown below a re committe e reports and

ACTIO N BY GRAND LODGE
RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 1
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes concurs with this recommend ation which would in effect require the Grand Master to appoint
at least one new member to every Grand Lodge committee whose mem-

50

PROCEED INGS OF THE

bership is seven or more, and at least one new member to every Grand
Lodge committe e whose members hip is five, but on an every-ot her-year
basis.
We feel this to be a thoughtf ul recomme ndation. based on the Grand
Master's close experien ce with the first applicati on of the principle enunciated in the Report of the Special Committ ee on Committ ee Structure
which provided for a method of regular How of new personne l for membership and service on the various committe es of Grand Lodge.
We move approval of the Grand Master's Recomm endation No. 1,
and the Committ ee on Policy a nd General Purposes recomme nds a yes
vote.
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence indicated its concurre nce in the recommendatio n o f the Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes .
A dopted.
RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 2

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

51

lation be adopted to provide for the establish ment in each Lodge of a
delinque nt dues comm ittee to work with the Master a nd officers in a
continuin g effort to reduce to a minimum su spension s for non-pay ment
of dues. we present the following resolutio n :
RESOL VED: Th at Section 577 of the Californ ia Masonic Code be
amended by adding thereto the following language : A committe e on
delinq uen t members shall be appointe d by the M aste r at the Stated
Meeting next succeedi ng his insta llation to personal ly. or otherwis e.
interview each delinque nt member, ascertain the cause, an d to work
closely with the Master and officers in a continuin g effort to effect the
retention of all members unable to pay, and deserving .
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 4

The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes, to w hich was re ferred
Recomm endation No. 2 of the Grand Master, reports as follows:
The recomme ndation is that the incoming Grand Master be authorized to appoint or re-appoi nt a Special C ommittee on Definitio n of C ommittee Respons ibilities and Code Review, to continue the study of that
subject. as was authoriz ed by our 1965 Commun ication.
Since the 1965 Committ ee has been unable to complete its task notwithstan ding its diligent efforts. it appears obvious to us that their work
should be continue d. and we therefore move the approval of Recommendatio n No. 2 and we recomme nd a yes vote.
The Committ ee on Finance indicated its concurre nce in the recommendation of the Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes .
Adopted .

Th e Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
In 1967 the United Grand Lodge of England will hold its 250th
Commu nication. The Grand Master has recomme nded that the incoming Grand Master, accompa nied by a Grand Lodge officer of his selection. be requeste d to attend that Commun ication. The Committ ee on
Policy and General Purposes warmly arrrees with the G rand Master's
recomme ndation believing tha t it is most fitting and appropri ate that the
M ost Wors hipful Grand Lodge of Californ ia s hould be represen ted on
this historic occasion.
We move the adoption of the recomme ndation and recomme nd a yes
vote.
The Committ ee on Finance indicated its concurrence in the recomme ndation of the Committ ee on P olicy and General Purposes .
Adopted .

R ECOMME NDAT ION No. 3

RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 5

The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes . to which was referred
the Grand Master's Recomm endation No. 3, reports as follows :
This Recomm endation is that a s tanding committee be establish ed in
each constitut ent Lodge, whose duty it would be to conduct a continuo us
effort througho ut the year "to reduce to a minimum suspensi ons for nonpayment of dues."
We believe that the task of reducing the number of such suspensi ons
should be entrusted to local active committe es.
W e therefore recomme nd that the Grand Master's Recomm endation
No. 3 be approved and we recomme nd a yes vote. We un derstand that
the Committ ee on Jurisprud ence is prepared to present the necessar y
impleme nting legislatio n.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
On March 29, 1966. a d irective from the Grand M LJster assioned to
the Mason ic EducL1tion Committ ee the dutie,.; and responsibiliti~s:
1. T o review all Research Lodge material intended fo r publication.
2. T o review all corresp onde n ce contemp lated with Grand
Lodges of other jurisdicti ons. and
3. To regulate the display and sale of approved Research Lodge
publications.
The Grand Master has recomme nded that this directive of M arch
29, 1966, with respect to Research Lodges be approved and the program
establish ed under it be continue d in force and effect.
The Committ ee on P olicy and General Purposes ag rees with the
Grand Master and moves the adoption of the recomme ndation and urges
a yes vote.

The Committ ee. on Jurisprudence:
Referrin g to the Grand M aster's Recomm endation No. 3 that legis-

52

PROCEED INGS OP THE

The Committ ees on Ritual and on Masonic Educatio n indicated their
concurre nce in the recomme ndations of the Committ ee on Policy and
General Purposes .
Adopted .
Re.coMM: E.NDA.TIO N No. 6

The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master's Message explaine d in some detail that much
doubt and uncertain ty prevails in the constitut ent Lodges concerni ng
the proper expendit ure of Lodge funds. He cited instances of such matters as the expenses of officers for attendan ce at dinners, meetings of
District Officers Associat ions and Boards of Relief. These matters frequently give rise to problems for the Lodges and the available sections
of the Californ ia Masonic Code leave much to be desired.
In addition , the Grand Master reported , there are also areas of uncertainty concernn ig the expendit ure of Grand Lodge funds. The fun.ds
of Grand Lodge are trust funds and their use should be regulated with
precision and exactnes s.
The Grand Master recomme nded that the Finance Committee of
Grand Lodge be requeste d to make a compreh ensive study and review
of the whole subject of Lodge Funds and Grand Lodge Funds and to
submit its findings and recomme ndations at the next Annual Communication.
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes moves the adoption
of the recomme ndation and urges a yes vote.
The Committ ees on Jurispruden ce and on Finance indicated their concurrence in the recomme ndation of the Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes .
Adopted .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

53

SPECIAL COMMUN ICATIONS OF GRAND LODGE

I965
Novemb er 6-Corn ers tone, Lindsay High School. Lindsay.
Novemb er 13 - Cornerst one, Victor F. Hodge Element ary School.
Azusa (John F. Porter, Senior Grand Warden ).
Novemb er 19-Cons titution, Mar Vista Lodge No. 820, Newport Beach.
Novemb er 20--Con stitution , Frank S. Land Lodge No. 819, Glendale .
Decembe r 4-Corne rstone, Alpha Joint Element ary School, Elverta
(Laurenc e E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master) .
1966
January 15-Corn erstone, El Camino Element ary School. Goleta.
January 22-Corn erstone, Estancia High School. Costa Mesa.
February 5-Corne rstone, Conway School, Escondid o.
February 12-Corn erstone, Commun ity Memoria l Hospital . Ventura .
February 26---Cor nerstone , Duarte City Library. Duarte (John F.
Porter, Senior Grand Warden ).
April 15-Corn erstone. Crown Valley Element ary School. Laguna
Niguel (John F. Porter, Senior Grand Warden ) .
April 16---Cor nerstone , Oakmon t High School. Roseville.
April 19- Cornerst one, Letha Raney Junior High School. Corona.
April 29-Corn erstone, Saddleba ck Senior High School. Santa Ana.
April 30--Corn erstone. Gordon Beatty School, Buena Park.
April 30--Corn erstone, Golden West Junior College. Hunting ton Beach.
May 7-Corne rstone, Mountai n View Element ary School. Ontario.
May 7-Corne rstone, Oakland Masonic Temple, Oakland (Laurenc e
E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master).
May 21-Corn erstone- -Rialto Masonic Temple, Rialto (Laurenc e E.
Dayton, Deputy Grand Master) .
June I I-Corne rstone, Aqua Duke School. Aqua Duke.
August 6---Corn erstone, Allan J. Orrenma a Element ary School. Riverside.
August 20--Corn erstone, Calavera s County Governm ent Center, San
Andreas .
Septemb er 9-Corne rstone, Katella High School, Anaheim (Laurenc e E.
Dayton, Deputy Grand Master) .
Septemb er 16---Com erstone, Oasis of Mara Masonic Temple, Twentynine Palms.
Septemb er 24- Cornerst one. Rio Vista Joint Union High School. Rio
Vista (Laurenc e E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master) .
Septemb er 25-Corn erstone. Victorin e Klein School. Mountai n View.
(Laurenc e E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master) .
Septemb er 30--Corn erstone. Moore Junior High School. Redland s.

54

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
SPECIAL CEREMONIES - DEDICATIONS

1965
October 30--Masonic Temple, Curtis Lodge No. 140, Cloverdale.
1966
January 15-Carpinteria Masonic Temple, Carpinteria.
January 15-New City Building, Albany (Laurence E. Dayton, Deputy
Grand Master).
January 29-Robert P. Ulrich Elementary School, California City.
April 2-Monrovia Masonic Temple. Monrovia.
April 19-Tetzlaff Junior High School, Dairy Valley.
April 21-Carver Elementary School. Artesia.
May 6-Chino Valley Lodge No. 427 Masonic Temple. Chino.
May 7-Masonic Temple, Ontario Lodge No. 301. Ontario.
May 9-Masonic Temple. El Cerrito Lodge No. 705, El Cerrito.
June 25-Santa Barbara County Administration Building. Santa Barbara.
June 25-Masonic Temple, Belvedere Lodge No. 539, Monterey Park.
September 2-Downey Masonic Temple, Downey.
September IO-Poplar Avenue School. Oroville.
September 16-0asis of Mara Masonic Temple, Twentynine Palms.
NEW LoDGES INSTITUTED

1965
November 27-lnstitute, Boron Lodge, Boron.
December 15-lnstitute. Maccabee Lodge. Rosemead.
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOU S

1965
October 15- Feast of Tishiri, San Francisco Bodies, A.A.S.R.. San
Francisco.
October 17-Breakfast , San Fracisco Masters and Wardens Association , San Francisco.
October 18- Annual Meeting, Grand Chapter Order of the Eastern
Star. Long Beach.
October 21-Reception , Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
October 31-Breakfast, 307. 308, 310 and 316th Masonic Districts.
Santa Rosa.
November I-Reception, University Lodge No. 394. Torrance.
November 10-Grand Guardian Council Session, 1.0.J.D., Berkeley
(Laurence E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master).
November 12- lnitiation Ball, Masonic Club at the University of California, Berkeley (Eugene S. Hopp. Junior Grand Warden).
November 13- Dinner, Santa Clara V alley Masonic Officer's Association, San Jose.
November 14- Breakfast, San Mateo County Masonic Officer's Association , San Mateo.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

55

November 16--Presentati on of a Fifty Year Button, Ontario Lodge
No. 301, Ontario (Phil Campbell, Grand Standard Bearer).
November 29-Presentati on of a Fifty Year Button , Mt. Davidson
Lodge No. 481, San Francisco (Laurence E. Dayton, Deputy
Grand Master).
1966
January 8-Masonic Homes Board Meeting, Union City.
January 13-Reception , 319 and 320th Masonic Districts , Richmond.
January 14-Testimoni al Dinner for Arthur J. Kahn, San Francisco.
January 20--Reception . 578, 586 and 588th Masonic Districts, Hawthorne.
February 12-Dinner, Southern California Past Mas ters Association,
Los Angeles.
February 16--Reception . 526, 528 and 564th Masonic Districts , Los
Angeles.
March 5-Reception, U.C.L.A. Clubhouse, Los Angeles.
March 6--Vesper Service, Wilshire Methodist Church, Los A ngeles.
March 8- Presentation of A Fifty Year Veteran Button to Paul A.
Pflueger, San Francisco.
March 9-Reception, 346th and 348th Masonic Districts , Berkeley.
March I I- Luncheon, San Francisco & Oakland Insurance Square Club
San Francisco.
March I I-Legislative Dinner, Sacramento.
March 13-Breakfas t. East Bay Masters and Wardens Association,
Oakland.
March 14-Reception , 530, 532, 534, 536, 538 and 540th Masonic Districts, Arcadia.
March 18--Dinner, The Westerners' Masonic Club, Los Angeles.
March 20-Breakfast, Los Angeles Board of Relief. Hollywood.
March 22-Reception, The Imperial Valley Masonic Officers Association, EI Centro.
March 26 & 27-Division Six Conference.
April 5-Grand Assembly, International Order of Rainbow for Girls,
Long Beach.
April 7-Maundy Thursday, Shrine Auditorium, Los Angeles.
April 14- Reception, 318, 360 and 361 st Masonic D istricts, Antioch.
April 15-Reception, 392 and 394th Masonic Districts, Salinas.
April 16- Reception, Sacramento Masters and W ardens Association
Sacramento.
'
April 17-Breakfast, Sacramento Masonic Board of Relief. Sacramento.
April 18-Grand Chapter, R.A.M. Annual Convocation, San Diego
(Eugene S. Hopp, Junior Grand Warden).
April 19-Gra nd Council. R.S .M. Annual Assembly, San Diego
(Eugene S. Hopp. Junior Grand Warden).

56

PROCEEDINGS OF TUE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

April 22-Recept ion. Masonic Club at the University, Berkeley.
April 22, 23, 24-Divisio n Three Conference.
April 25-Public Schools Program, 554 , 556, 558. 560 and 568th
Masonic Districts, Los Angeles.
April 30-Banque t. Master Masons of Orange County, Anaheim.
May I-Breakfas t. Long Beach Board of Relief. Long Beach.
May 4- Presentation of Fifty Year Button to Melvin R. Berbower .
Long Beach.
May 10-Recepti on, 304th Masonic District, Ukiah .
May 13. 14, 15-Divisio n Five Conference.
May 16-lnstallation, Union Oil Masonic Club. Los Angeles.
May 17-Recepti on, 548th Masonic District, Los Angeles.
May 18-Recepti on, 406th Masonic District, Modesto.
May 20-Recepti on. Clairemont Mesa Lodge No. 799, Mission Valley.
May 27- Masonic Sabbath Service, Tifereth Israel Synagogue, San
Diego (Eugene S. Hopp, Junior Grand Warden).
June 3, 4. 5-Division Four Conference.
June 9-Receptio n, 634th District and Leisure W orld Masonic Cluh.
Seal Beach.
June 12-Meetin g. Order of DeMolay, Reseda.
June 12-Breakfa st, San Diego County Masonic 0 fficers Association
Annual Flag Day Event (Eugene S. Hopp, Junior Grand
Warden).
June 13-Meeting , Lawrence C. Kelley Chapter, Order of DeMolay.
San Fernando.
June I 5-Receptio n. 5I 6, 518 and 520th Masonic Districts, Van N uys.
June 16-Recepti on. 502nd Masonic D istrict. Ridgecrest.
June 16-Recepti on for Grand Master of Baja Ca lifornia, Los Angeles
(Donald G . Campbell. Past Grand Lecturer) .
June 17, 18, 19- Divisions 1 and 2 Conference.
June 24- Grand Bethel Session, 1.0.J.D., Long Beach.
June 24- Annual Beefsteak Feed. Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Inglewood .
June 26-Breakfa st. St. John·s Day Observance , Anchor Lodge No.
273 . Compton.
June 27- Enroute to Hawaii.
June 27- Dinner, 384th and 385th Masonic D istricts. Honolulu.
June 28-Honolu lu Tour, Waikiki Lodge No. 774, Honolulu.
Jtme 28-Recepti on. Jointly with all Honolulu Lodges. Honolulu .
June 29-Breakfast, Officers Aloha Shrine Temple. Honolulu.
June 29- Dinner, York Rite Bodies. Honolulu.
June 30-Tour, Schofield Lodge No. 443. Honolulu.
July I- Luau. Honolulu Lodge N o. 409, Honolulu.
July 2-Dinner. Koolau Lodge No. 801 . Kailua.

57

July 3-Church Service, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, Honolulu.
July 3-Receptio n, DeMolay. Job's Daughters. Rainbow for Girls.
Honolulu.
July 4-Pearl Harbor Tour, Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598, Honolulu.
July 4-Dinner. Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371 , Honolulu.
July 5-Dinner, Kauai Lodge No. 589, Kauai.
July 6--Tour Kauai Lodge No. 589. Kauai.
July 8-Dinner, Kilauea Lodge No. 330. Hilo.
July 9-Tour, Kilauea Lodge No. 330. Hilo.
July JO-Dinner, Kona Masons, Kana.
July 12-Haleak ala Tour, Lodge Maui No. 472, Maui.
July 13-Dinner . Maui Lodge No. 472, Maui.
July 14-Dinner . Scottish Rite Bodies, Honolulu.
July 16-Dinner , Joint Officers' Association Banquet, 384th and 385th
Masonic Districts, Honolulu.
July l 7-Return to Los Angeles.
August I-Conferre d First Degree upon son. Gregory Newcomb Smith,
University Lodge No. 394.
August 19-Recepti on. 420, 421 and 506th Masonic Districts. San Luis
Obispo.
August 27-Recepti on, 41 lth Masonic District, Mariposa.
September 8-Receptio n, 300th and 301 st Masonic Districts, Eureka.
September 9-Receptio n. I I 4, I l 6 and I 17th Masonic Districts, Chico.
September 1l-621st Masonic District Picnic, San Pedro.
September l 2-Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco Board Meeting, San Francisco.
September l 7-Constitu tion Observance Program, Buena Park.
September l 7-Constitu tion Observance Program, 634th Masonic District. Westminste r (Warren J. Blomseth. Grand Orator}.
September 17-Recepti on, Needles Lodge No. 326. Needles.
September 18- Breakfast, 418 Masonic District, Fresno.
September 19-Constit ution Observance Program. 580th Masonic D istrict. Torrance.
·
September 21-Constit ution Observance Program, 554, 556. 558, 560,
and 568th Masonic Districts. Los Angeles.
September 26--Conferred Third Degree upon son, Gregory Newcomb
Smith, University Lodge No. 394.
September 30-Recept ion 607th and 609th Masonic Districts, P alm
Springs.
October I-Receptio n and Barbeque, 636th and 637tb Masonic Districts, Fallbrook.

58

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ANNIVERSARIES

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

1965
October 23-Centennial Celebration, Mendocino Lodge No. 179. Mendocino.
October 23-95th Anniversary, South San Francisco Lodge No. 212.
South San Francisco (Eugene S. Hopp. Junior Grand Warden).
October 29-Centennial Celebration, Phoenix Lodge No. 178, San
Bernardino.
October 29-75th Anniversary, Ontario Lodge No. 301, Ontario (John
F. Porter, Senior Grand Warden).
November 22-75th Anniversary, Redlands Lodge No. 300, Redlands
(John F. Porter, Senior Grand Ward en).
1966
June 10- 75th Anniversary, Santa Monica Lodge No. 307, Santa
Monica.
June 21-Centennial Celebration, Russian River Lodge No. 181, Russian
River.
July 16- Golden Anniversary, Center Lodge No. 465, Fresno.
(Laurence E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master).
September 24-75th Anniversary, Delano Lod ge No. 309, Delano.
V1s1TATtO NS BY GRAND LoDGE OFFICERS TO
OTHER GRAND JURISDICTIONS
1965
November 7, 8-Centennial Celebration. Grand Lodge of Nevada, Reno.
December 1, 2-Annual Communication-G rand Lodge of Texas.
1966
January 25 , 26- Annual Communication - Grand Lodge of Colorado
(Laurence E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master).
February 21, 22. 23, 24-Conference of Grand Masters ~f North Am~­
ica e1nd Annual Meeting of The George Washmgton Masomc
National Memorial Association, Washington, D. C. (Grand
Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary).
April 25-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona (Laurence
E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master).
May 21. 22, 23, 24- Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Michigan.
June 8, 9-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon (John F.
Porter. Senior Grand Warden) .
June 21. 22 -Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Washington
(Eugene S. Hopp, Junior Grand Warden).
June 23- Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of British Columbia,
Vancouver (Edward H. Siems. Grand Secretary).

59

E. SM I TH
GRANO MASTER

M YRON

PROCLAMATION- DEMOLAY W EEK
MARCH 14-18, 1966
"The world goes forward on the feet of its youth. Where
those feet will lead the world is determined by what road they
walk now, with us adults."
We of the Masonic Fraternity have an obligation to the youth of
our land, to help them become the finest citizens they are capable of
becoming-just as we seek to be exemplary citizens.
The Order of DeMolay is one of the most effective means through
which to achieve this goal. A fraternal organization for boys between
the ages of 14 and 21 y ears , it was founded in 1919 by a great and good
Mason-Frank S. Land.
DeMolay's "object is the encouragement and development of good
citizenship and sound character among youth, teaching clean, upright
living by inculcating and teaching the virtues of comradeship, reverence.
Jove of parents, patriotism , courtesy. cleanliness and fidelity. Its supreme
effort is to create leaders and develop character"-so greatly needed to
lead the world tomorrow.
I call upon every Master Mason in this great jurisdiction to devote
an increasing portion of his time and talents to the continued growth and
development of DeMo!ay in California and Hawaii.
To this end, I proclaim the week of March 14-18, 1966. as DeMolay
Week in this jurisdiction and urge that each constituent Lodge and all
Masons use it to further the work of the Order of DeMolay.
I direct tha t this proclamation be read at the next Stated Meeting of
each Lodge, and, if possible, that it be included in the Lodge bulletins
for March.
Dated: January 25, 1966
Fraternally,
MYRON E. SMITH
Grand Master
Attest:
EowARD H. SIEMS
Grand S ecretary

60

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

61

GRAN D LODG E
FREE AND ACCE PTED MASO NS
OF CALIF ORNIA
MYRON E. SM ITH
GRAND MASTER

GRAN D LODG E
FREE AND ACCE PTED MASO NS

PROCLAM ATION
FORTY-S EVENTH ANNUAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

Our nation was founded upon the concept that man's rights come
from God. that man forms his governm ent to protect those rights and
that an enlighten ed citizenry is essential to the exercise of such rights.
To enlighten the people, our forefathe rs esablishe d the great America n
Public School System for all children.
The public school is an extension of the home. The success of the
public school hinges upon the continuin g cooperat ive interest and concern of the school administ ration, the teacher, the student and the parent.
The objective of the annual Public Schools Week Program is to
rededica te ourselves toward the continua tion and perfectio n of our Public School System. Through our Public Schools Week Committee, many
splendid suggestio ns are made available to each local Lodge Committ ee
to assist them in planning a program to fit the need of the local community. It is my hope that every Lodge will participa te in the local
Public Schools Week Program in such a way that every home will be
ever conscious of the kind of training children are receiving .
I. therefore , proclaim the week of April 25 to April 29 to be Public
Schools Week and direct all constitue nt Lodges in Californ ia and Hawaii
to actively participa te in an appropri ate Public Schools Week Program .
I also direct that only Stated Meeting s or those for Public Schools Week
Observa nce be held during this period.
This Proclam ation is to be read at the March and April Stated
Meeting s.

OF CALIF ORNIA
MYRON E. SM I TH
GRAND MASTER

PRO CLAMATI ON
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWM ENT MONTH

"He is truly great who hath a great charity."
Masonry in our jurisdicti on is truly great because of its great charity
-The Masonic Homes of Californ ia.
To sustain and support this great program is the joy and privilege
and duty of every Mason. This objective may bes t be accompli shed
through contribut ions to our Masonic Homes Endowm ent Fund.
I, therefore, call upon all Masons to give generous ly to this great
cause and hereby proclaim the month of May as " Masonic Homes Endowmen t Month.'' I direct that this Proclam ation be read at the March
and April Stated Meeting s of all Lodges in Californ ia and Hawaii. I
also request that a copy be sent to each member.
Dated: March 4, 1966
MYRON E. SMITH

Grand Master

Dated: February 25, 1966
MYRON E. SMITH

Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretar y

Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand S ecretary

62

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

MYRON E. SM !TH
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMATION
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH

A grateful people has enshrined the Constitution of the United
States in the National Archives Building in the Nation's Capital. Encased in glass and sealed in helium it is displayed daily for all to see.
It can be quickly lowered manually or by an electrically operated
mechanism into a fireproof. shockproof, bombproof vault beneath the
floor. To stand before it is an unforgettable experience- for here is our
charter of freedom , the heritage and pride of the American people.
Four inscriptions adorn the entrances to the Building:
STUDY THE PAST
WHAT IS PAST IS PROLOGUE
THE HERITAGE OF THE PAST IS THE SEED THAT
BRINGS FORTH THE HARVEST OF THE FUTURE
ETERNAL VIGILANCE IS THE PRICE OF LIBERTY
This is the message for all Masons. for all citizens: The Constitution
of the United States is a living, vital thing! To create it for us our forefathers pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor. We
must protect and support it with equal devotion to reap for ourselves
and our children's children the harvest of liberty and freedom it guarantees.
I. therefore, proclaim the month of September, 1966, to be Constitution Observance M onth and direct all constituent Lodges in California
and Hawaii to hold public ceremonies during that month, commemorating
the signing of the Constitution on September 17, 1787.
Also, I direct that this proclaimation be read at the August and
September Stated Meetings of each Lodge.
Dated: June 1, 1966
MYRON E. SMITH

Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

G rand Secretary

63

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge P . & A. M. of California:
I take pleasure in presenting my third annual report as Grand
Treasurer.
The financial stz tements and audits of the Grand Lodge, Masonic
Homes of California and the California Masonic Memorial Temple are
a part of this report. Each gives a complete financial history of its
individual corporate activity and together they represent the financial
story of the Grand Lodge and all its components. A careful reading of
the several reports, including schedules and exhibits attached thereto.
is strongly urged.
It was again my pleasure to sit in with representatives of Lybrand,
Ross Bros. & Montgomery. and with members of the office to review
the details of the audits. All appropriations and disbursements as provided in Section 191 C.M.C. were carefully reviewed by the professional
auditors . The budget approved at the last Annual Communication has
been strictly followed.
Steady and consistent progress is being made toward the objective
of simplification and coordination of the opera tion of the Grand Secretary's office. The Grand Lodge of C alifornia and its constituencies have
grown to very sizable proportions. Grand Lodge can be proud of the
Grand Secretary and his office staff. The responsibilities of the office are
very considerable and are efficiently carried out. Likewise, the committees who meet in the Grand Secretary's office, and who give so much of
their time, are wo_rthy of special commendation.
The Grand Master was requested and did authorize supplemental
appropriations to cover items totaling $31.874.76. The year under review
presented a number of unusual items , the cost of which were not completely anticipated in the budget, the larges t of which wa s the setting-up
cost of preparation for mailing the California Freemason. Reference to
these supplemental approvals will be set forth in the report of the Finance
Committee.
I am pleased to report, however, that as your Grand Treasurer, I
have kept in close touch with this program. The excesses have, in my
judgment, been justified, and are essential. It is a lso my considered
judgment that some of these are non- recurring.
Figures taken from the Grand Lodge budget, starting on Page 263
of the 1965 Proceedings, may be helpful:
Recapituation
Budgeted
Actually Spent
Administration .................................... $141 ,550.00
$128,224.93
General Expense ................................ 154 .050.00
151. 746. l 7
Appropriation .................................... I 08,984.00
104,845.87
$404 ,584 .00

$384,916.97

64

PIWCEEDINGS OP THE

This recapitulation shows an under-expenditure of $19,667.03. You
will note. however. that these figures do not take into account the California Freemason, since it was covered by a special appropriation of 25c
per capita. The detail of this item will be covered in a special report to
the Grand Lodge .
. My sincere thanks and appreciation are expressed to our Grand
Master. Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith, for his sympathetic understanding and keen interest in the finances of Grand Lodge and its components; to my associate, Worshipful Jack F. Bowley, Assistant Grand
Treasurer, for his willingness to discuss financial problems pertaining to
our offices; and to our Grand Secretary, Very Worshipful Edward H.
Siems, and his staff for their continuing desire to be of service at every
opportunity. and with whom I have almost daily contact.
Respectfully submitted.
PAUL A. PFLUEGER

Grand Treasurer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

65

GRANO LODGE OF CALIPORNIJ\
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

Years Ended June 30,
1966
1965
INCOME RECEIPTS 1
Grand Lodge:
Per capita, contributions, and fees
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
Payments through Lodges for Homes
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous

$

343, 729
48,461
392, 190

$

344,058
58,458
402,516

539,083
4 l , 338
159,539
n9,96o

421. 051
42, 771
137,283
601,105

668,834

599,393

387
51,057
51,444

381
30,529
30,910

6,529
173,297
179, 826

4.062
162,105
166,167

2,032,254

l. 800' 091

10.267
10,267

885
2,204
3,089

72,946
1,149,342
474,564
1,696,852

77' 924
313' 383
400,059
791,366

1.128.264
536,679
1,664,943

l, 333' 052·
292,025
l, 625' 077

Masonic Homes - Other Endowment and
Truat Funds:
Bequests
Gain on sale of securities
Received from residents for
depoai t (net)

437.036
33,497

480, 296
27,296

1,259
471. 792

5,176
512,768

Memorial Temple:
Grand Lodge per capita and
contributions
Bequests and individual contributions
Addition to reserve for renewals and
replacement9

297 '025
36,541

297,433
46' 7 36

l, 732
335, 220

_......!.......i

6,211, 406

5,078,189

Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Other Endowment Funds:
Cont.r ibu tions
Interest and dividends
MelftOrial Temple:
interest
Memorial Temple operations
Total income (exclusive of
capital gains)
CAPITAL RECEIPTS, INCLUDING CAPITAL GAINS:
Grand Lodge:
Gain on sale of securities
Bequest
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Gain on sale of securities
Bequests and contributions
Assignments by residents
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Bequests and contributions
Gain on sale of securities

Total income and capital
receipt• - fontard

34?, 728

66

PROCEEDINGS OF T HE

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

67

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFIL~ATED ORGANIZATIONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
I ha ve the honor to present to you my Sixth Annual Report as Grand
Secretary.

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS, Con t inued

U NFINISHED BU SINESS
Years Ended June 30,
1965
1966
To tal income and capital
receipts - forward
EXPENSE DISBURSEMENTS:
Grand Lodge :
Operating expense
Masoni c Homes - General Fund:
Ope ra tion of Hornes and outside relief
Administrat ive and general expe n se
Masonic Homes - Endowment and Trust Funds:
Misce llaneou s
Memorial Temple:
Administra tive a nd general e x pense
Memorial Temple opera tions
Interest on n otes payable
Transferred to reserve for r enewals
and r epla cements
Total operating expenses
EXPENSES PAID FROM F UNDS AND RESERVES:
Grand Lodge :
F r om Reserve for "California
Freemason", to offset publ icati on
costs
Legal fee relating to legacy income

$6,211,406

$5, 07 8' 189

365,203

362,654

1,748,988
137,756
l,886, 744

1.702,806
100,368
1, 803' 174

3,632

3,660

8,966
122,292
12, 541

6 , 4 06
149 .162
26 , 190

1 , 733
145,532

1. 629
183 , 387

2 , 4 0 1,111

2,352 ,87 5

4,000

36,1 09
6,143

Tota l expenses

2, 40 5, 111

2,395,12 7

Net increase in fund balanc es

$].806,295

$2.683, 062

The foregoing ne t increase in fu nd b al ances during t h e years
ended June 30, 1 966 and 1965 a r e repr esented by the following:
I ncrease (decrease) in cash on depos i t
in banks
Increase i n cost of secur ities o wned
Increase in build ings a nd e qu ipment
Decrease in l oan s from banks
Increase i n miscel laneous assets (ne t )
(Incr ease) i n s undry liabilities
Net increase in fund balances,
as above

s (419 ,554 ) $
3,881, 592
27,660
216.000
111. 575
(1 0, 978)

235 .554
1,666 , 642
4 53,3 4 3
34 2,000
4, 008
(18,485)

;; 3 , 806 , 295

$2.683 . ill

The following matters were continued from the last A nnual Communication to the present one:
1. Liquor-Legislation Prior to 1966 Communication. page 212, 1965
Proceedings.
2. Special Commi ttee on Committee Structure - A ttention to C onsolidations and Cons titu tion Observance, p<Jge 213. 1965 P roceedings.
3. Study of Audits of Grand Lodge Accounts, page 216. 1965
Proceedings.
4. Study on Unwarranted Advance Remission o f D ues, page 212.
1965 Proceedings.
CHARTER AMENDMENTS

A t the 1965 Communication authority was given to the G rand Secretary to endorse the charters of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212
and Francis Drake Lodge No. 376 to show consolidation on D ecember 1,
1965. the Lodge to be known as Francis Drake-South San Francis..:o
Lodge No. 212. On N ovember 15, 1965, the Grand Master was notified
that the two Lodges had determined to cancel plans fo r the consolidation,
and the charters.of the two Lodges were not endorsed as authorized.

Change of Meet ing Place:
F ollowing is a list of Lodges and the changes of meeting place which
have occurred during the year :
South San Francisco Lodge N o. 212 from South San F rancisco to
Daly City.
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484, fro m Los Angeles to H awthorne.
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569 from Oakland to Castro Valley.
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571 from Berkeley to El Cerrito.
Hillcrest Lodge No. 573 from Berkeley to Orinda.
Fortitude Lodge No. 624 from Berkeley to Oakland.
West minster Lodge No. 787 from Westminster to Seal Beach.
Koolau Lodge No. 801 from Kailua to Kaneohe.
Southern C alifornia Research Lodge from Hollywood to Los An,
geles.
These changes of meeting place have been officially approved under
the a uthority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secreta ry now requests permission to properly endorse their charters.
(NOTE: Approved. See R eports of Committees on Charters and on By,
Laws for action taken.)

68

69

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALI PORNIA

Consolidation of Lodgts:
All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been
complied with by Golden Gate Lodge No. 30 and Speranza ltaliana
Lodge No. 219 they consolidated on July 1, 1966. with the approval of
the Grand Master. The Lodge will be known as Golden Gate Speranza
Lodge No. 30.
The Grand Secretary requests a uthority to properly endorse these
charters.
(NOTE: Approved. See Report of Committee on Charters .)

The charter membership is as follows: James Oliver Fourr (Master ).
Benjamin Melvin Lanphear (Senior Warden). William Ralph Hawk
(Junior Warden). James Lyle Clements, Grady Lesley Moore, Dottie
Hestel Bishop, Homer Lee Daniels. Frank Edward Mercer, Boyce Lee
Couch. Jack DeMaris. Samuel Irvin Taylor, Leonard Columbus Brown.
Dwight Earl Honecker, Benjamin Holly McCaslin, Ray Elisha Horner,
Homer Knott, John Melvin Davis. Fredrick Allwyn Douglass, William
Franklin Fourr, Raymond Half Farmer, James Earl Kenyon, Loyal
Edgar Clark, Walter Howard Mcintyre, Harlan Self, Jr., Ollie Delmar
Turman, Orin Ramey Willis, Harold Dean Beck, Barney Jason Green,
William Brewster Puckett, Guy Forrest Gillespie, William Harold Roberson, Paul A. Kostopolous, Albert Stanley Linck, Charles Pasquan,
Jasper Winfield Moore, Beamon William Schrum.

COLUMBIA TEMPLE

The Columbia Temple Committee recommended in its 1965 Report
to Grand Lodge that the rental of the Temple be reduced for the socalled Masonic youth groups desiring to meet in the building during the
week. It was determined to charge these groups - DeMolay, Jobs
Daughters and Rainbow G irls - $5.00 for the use of the Temple. either
afternoon or evening. Monday through Thursday. If. however, one of
the Lodges wishes to use the building on any date requested by a youth
group, then the Lodge is to have preference.
NEW LODGES

Maccabee Lodge, U .D .. located at Rosemead, was formed during
the year. Dispensation granted October 5, 1965. The Lodge was instituted December 15, 1965. at Rosemead, Most Worshipful Myron E .
Smith, Grand Master, presiding.
The chaP.ter membership is as follows: Irving Zuckerman (Master) ,
Pete Bernard Florio (Senior Warden), Stanley Parker (Junior
Warden), Robert Isadore Brodsky, Eugene G eorge Carson, Benjamin
Cherroff, William Jacob Disney, Jr.. Morton Washington Feinman ,
Harry Fisher, Moe David Pox, Leon Ginsberg, Harry Goldman, Sidney
Lawrence Graubard, Lawrence Abraham Gruer, Alfred I. Grumet.
Henry Grumet, Edward William Grush, John Everell Harris, Irving
Benjamin Hechter, David Hendler, Harold Bob Ivers. Robert Harvey
Jones, Sidney Sheldon Kassler, Jess Warren Katz, Ross Leon Kent,
Harry Irving Leddel. Frank Lichtenstein, Ernest Milburn Marcus, Louis
Mintz, John Durand Myers, Matthew Newman, Ben Obestein, Clayton
Allan Rakov, Joseph Rosenbaum, Irving Noah Rubinstein, William
Charles Sader. Philip Sandalow, Joseph Sein, Nathan Shapiro, Robert
Harvey Siegel, Sidney Ralph Siegel. Rueben Charles Sklar, Harvey
Hyman Skolnik, Bernard Solway, Samuel Wahl, Lee Walter Wolfe,
Robert Irving Wolman, Sam Wynman, Nathan Ben Zatkin.
Boron Lodge. U.D., located at Boron, was formed during the year.
Dispensation granted October 8, 1965. The Lodge was instituted
November 27, 1965, at Boron, Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith. Grand
Master, presiding.

MEMBERSHIP

Membership Summary:
1962
New Lodges F ormed ...
4
Consolidations ·---··········
2
Initiated .......................... 6,426
Passed ····----·····---'"·---······· 6,132
Raised .............................. 6,330
Affiliations (Calif.) ...... 1,602
636
(Other Juris.) ········-···
362
Reinstated ····--··-·-···········
Withdrawn ····-···········--·· 2,066
Suspended for NonPayment of Dues ...... 1,514
Suspended or Expelled
For Cause _.....:...........
23
Deaths ····----······ ··-···· ········ 4,633
Number of Members ....244,242•
Dues Remitted -·-········-·· 3,451
696
Gains ·····-···········-············
Number of Lodges (exeluding Research) ....
703
•Plural Members ineluded in total ........... 1,653
Research Membership ..
321

1963
4
1
6,223
5,743
5,833
1,566
777
371
2,073

1964
4
2
6,412
5,858
5,799
1,654
653
345
2,161

1965
2
0
6,144
5,899
5,675
1,436
922
362
1,970

1966
2
0
5,390
5,079
5,211
1,396
764
352
1,870

1,431

1,401

1,495

1,501

36
4,777
244,494.
3,515
252

32
5,052
244,499•
3,504
5

37
5,006
244,586•
3,494
87

21
5,365
243,572 •
3,414
1,014 - Loss

705

707

709

71 1

1,770
304

1,790
315

1,832
328

1,973
355

70

Amount
$ 50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
65.00
70.00
74.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
86.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
100.00
102.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00
140.00
150.00
165.00
] 75.00
215.00

Total Lodges
Average

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FEES FOR DEGREES

This is the first year since 1941 that we have shown a net loss in
membership. There are a number of causes immediately responsible for
this situation. Our Lodges accepted 754 fewer applications tha n a year
ago. This in itself accounts for approximately three-fourths of the loss.
Our affiliations from other jurisdictions were the lowes t they have been
since 1960-with the exception of the fiscal year 1963-when we had
seven less affiliations.
Deaths this last fiscal year were the highest of any yea r in our history-having reached a total of 5,365. T his was an increase of 357 o ver
the preceding year. The average increase in deaths for the past l 0 years,
over the preceding y ear , has been about 140 per year.
An interesting observation is that between the years 1931 and 1941
we lost a total of 16,580 members. In 1942 we sta rted to gain again
and have shown a cons istent g rowth. The addition of 117,730 members
since that time has almost doubled our membership.
Suspensions for non-payment of dues continue to increase. w her eas
the number of dues remissions a re declining . This situation seems to
evidence a certain inconsistency. If a Brother is a ctually in financial
trouble, his dues should be remitted r ather than to take the easy way
out by suspending him. Our suspensions for non-payment of dues over
the past ten years have increased in excess of 30% .
In times as prosperous a s these such increases may indicate that the
delinquent dues committees in some of our Lodges may in themselves be
a bit delinquent. We can point with pride to certain Lodges with no dues
delinquencies, no suspensions for non-payment of d ues. a nd only a minimum of remissions. A review of this program by the officers of each of
our Lodges could make a real difference. I submit this summary on
memberhip for your careful and serious study.

1961
No. Lodges
89
4
2
13
1
172
22
2
20
1
222

6
3
38
3
79
1
1
3
7
8

3
700
$91.11

1966
No. Lodges
74
1
2
1
13
1
1
163
1
20
3
1
28
2
1
228
1
11
3

44

5

80
1
4
4
6
3
8
1
711
$93.17

Increase in
No. Lodges

Decrease in
No. Lodges
15

1
2
1
1
1

9
2

1
1
8
1
l

6
]

5
6
2
l

3
1
3
43

1
2
32

ANNUAL DUES

Amount
$ 12.00
14.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00
22.00
23.00
24.00
25.00
30.00
40.00
50.00

Total Lodges
Average

1961
No. Lodges
121
l
308
64
2
177
22

1955
No. Lodges
58
190
50
2
255

92

4
1

21
3
1
22
13
1
2

700
$15.56

711
$17.38

1

Increase in
No. Lodges

78
70
21
3
1
18
12
1
2
1
207

Decrease in
No. Lodges
63
1
118
14

196

71

GRAND LooGE PERSONNEL HISTORY

In 1965. I reported on the progress made in establishing a G rand
Lodge personnel history file. The program has proven its wor th in many
ways. Even though time has not permitted the office staff to ma ke the
records as effective as they ultimately will be, their value has been shown
many times . For the fir st time in the history of this Gra nd Lodge. we
have a fair idea of its s trength- as set forth on the records filed by the
individual members of Grand Lodge. As a part of the Election C ertificate
each year, we will include a new personnel history card for the new
Junior W ardens. In this manner, we will be able to keep the reco r d
current. If more than one officer is new in the Warden or Master group.
the Lodge should request a dditional cards. We solicit your continued
cooperation. This additional information has not been available heretofore in the membership records.
At present. a study is under way to determine the most effective way
to classify the information. Our Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and

72

73

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND l.,ODGE OP CJ\LIPORNI/\

Junior Grand Wardens have found the records most helpful in their
planning for the future. For the present the records are segregated by
Lodges, Divisions and Districts. We are pleased to note the information
in the file has also proven helpful to a number of leaders in communities
throughout the State.

taries' groups throughout the State and to maintain this effective area of
liaison between the Lodges and your central office. Still another group
has been organized in Northern California. We welcome these opportunities to be of service to the Secretaries.

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

Your staff is continually working on methods to improve and simplify
office procedures-always bearing in mind the necessity of maintaining
adequate controls.
You will note on all supply items (as we reorder them ) an effort is
being made to give each a form number for easy identification. O ur
printers are requested to show on the last order the number of items
printed and the date. In our supply room we maintain a running inventory of all items.
This year. for the flrst time anywhere we believe, we relieved the
Secretaries of the 711 Lodges of the detail and responsibility of filing
an Annual Returns Form. Instead the Return was prepared in the Grand
Secretary's Office based upon the information taken from the Monthly
Returns. As a first effort. all agreed that it worked remarkably well. It
saved much effort and time in our office as well. The statements were
prepared by l.B.M. equipment in conjunction with our over-all modernization program.

When first undertaking the task of mailing the California Freemason
to all Master Mason members of California and Hawaii Lodges, there
were many groans-principally from the Secretaries-beca use of the
anticipated additional work load. Current responses indicate that it was
not as difficult as originally antcipated. In fact, many Secretaries report
the results have been helpful in keeping their membership addresses current. We are grateful for their fine cooperation. A poor address results
in non-delivery of the magazine to the addressee. It also adds a substantial cost to distribution. In order to make certain that mailing addresses are current, Additions or Changes, or Deletions to the lists
should be in the Grand Secretary's office in accordance with the schedule
on the Instruction Sheet inasmuch as publication dates have been determined.
FRATERNAL VISITS

Our Grand M aster, Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith, arranged for
Mrs. Siems and me to accompany him and Mrs. Smith to the Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge of Michigan on May 23-25 inclusive. It was also my pleasure, as an initial experience, to attend the
Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge of Washington and the
Grand Lodge of British Columbia in June of this year. Our Junior Grand
Warden, Eugene S. Hopp, accompanied by Mrs. Hopp and their daughter Joy were also guests of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
At its Annual Communication in November, 1965, the Grand Lodge
of Nevada celebrated 100 years of existence. Because of the dose relationship between the Grand Lodge of California and the Grand Lodge
of Nevada, arrangement was made for the elective Grand Lodge Officers
to be present. All were formally received in a group. It was an outstanding Masonic meeting.
These visitations were rewarding experiences. The hospitality of
the several Grand Lodges was appreciated. I was the principal speaker
on the occasion of a special Secretaries' meeting of the Lodges in Washington. The subject of my talk was "Membership Records of the Grand
Lodge of California." The sharing of ideas with other Grand Lodges
is worth while, and I am grateful to our Grand Master for the opportunity to attend these Annual Communications.

M ODERN IZING OFFICE PROCEDURES

CONCLUSION

My sincere thanks and appreciation for the splendid cooperation of
the many Brethren called on throughout the year-the Inspectors, Lodge
Officers, Committeemen and especially the Secretaries-who have a
continuous direct·contact with our office.
My special thanks to the Grand Lodge Office S taff. It is a real
satisfaction to work with such a fine, loyal and dedica ted group of
employees.
Speaking for our entire staff, we appreciate the privilege which has
been ours to work with, and for, the Grand Lodge leadership. Our
Grand Master, Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith and his corps of
Officers have been an inspiration to all of us.
This is the culmination of another very busy year for F reemasonry.
Our special thanks to the more than 2-13 ,000 Masons in California and
Hawaii for the opportunity to serve you.

Grand Secretary

SECRETARIES ASSOCIATIONS

Representatives from our office have continued to meet with Secre-

Referred to Committee on Distribution.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A
D1sPENSATIONS IssuEo
To elect Oflkers at a time other than that fixed by law: Tehama
No. 3; Morning Star No. 68; Arcata No. 106: Vacaville No. 134; Valley
No. 135; Evening Star No. 186; Ferndale No. 193; Stanislaus No. 206;
Rio Vista No. 208: King David's No. 209; San Benito No. 211; Brooklyn No. 225; King Solomon's Seaport No. 260; Needles No. 326;
Francis Drake No. 376; Glendora No. 404; San Dimas No. 428; Standard No. 440; Paul Revere No. 462; Chowchilla No. 485: Woodstock
No. 491; Patterson No. 488; Cupertino No. 510; Bay City No. 526 ;
Covenant No. 527; Veritas-Jonathan No. 545: S. W. Hackett No. 574 ;
Escalon No. 591; Alta Loma No. 643; Jordan No. 654: San Clemente
No. 671; Travelers No. 692: Hunters Point Naval No. 706; Rollings
Hills No. 781; Paramount No. 785; Yucca Valley No. 802; Old W est
No. 813; Manhattan No. 817; EI Camino Research.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Military Service No. 570:
Riverside No. 635.
To receive and act upon the application for Degrees without reference to committee: Martinez No. 41.
To receive and act upon the application for Degrees presented by a
rejected Candidate within less than twelve months: Northern Light No.
190; Evergreen No. 259; Alpha No. 431.
To open Lodge elsewhere than the regular meeting place: Charity
No. 362: Neptune No. 619; Angeles Mesa No. 625; Crossroads No. 696;
Westminster No. 787; Maccabee U.D.
Special permission for conferring of Degrees: Occidental No. 22:
Fullerton No. 339; Parnassus No. 388: Apollo No. 396; Burbank No.
406: Clovis No. 417; America No. 475; Utopia No. 537; Arcadia No.
547; Triangle No. 548; West Adams No. 565; Southland No. 618; La
Brea No. 650; Liberal Arts No. 677; Magnolia Park No. 715.
Miscellaneous: Blackmer No. 442.

tions issued by the Grand Master during the past year and resolutions
relative to life membership.
We feel that all the acts of the Grand Mas ter in regard to these
matters have been in compliance wit h the requirements of our law. We
recommend that the special dispensations and the life membership resolutions above referred to be approved.
Adopted.
EXHIBIT B

LIPE MEMBERSHIP

Increasing fee: Union No. 58, to $450.00: Northern Light No. 190.
to $390.00; Downey No. 220. to $450.00; Bakersfield No. 224, to
$458.00; Sequoia No. 349, to $500.00; Apollo No. 396. to $375.00;
York No. 423. to $375.00; Park No. 449, to $500.00; F ellowship No.
~80, to $450.00; Woodstock No. 491, to $375.00; Euclid No. 519, to
$458.33; Utopia No. 537, to $425.00; Chateau Thierry No. 569, to
$500.00; James A. Foshay No. 641, to $500.00; Jordan No. 654, to
$390.00; Lawndale No. 753, to $420.00.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on Jurisprudence has reveiwed the special dispensa-

75

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Hornitos No. 98, to $90.00: Vitruvius No. 145, to
$75.00; Northern Light No. 190. to $90.00; Mosaic No. 218. to $100.00;
Arroyo No. 274, to $75.00; Huntington Beach No. 380, to $90.00; Sierra
Madre No. 408, to $90.00; Fellowship No. 480, to $100.00; Piedmont
No. 521, to $100.00; Ojai No. 663. to $105.00; Barstow No. 682. to
$100.00; Lakewood No. 728, to $140.00.
Decreasing fees: Olivet No. 205, to $50.00: Utopia No. 537, to
$75.00: Oakwood No. 743. to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Piedmont No . 521, to $10.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Enterprise No. 70.
Revising fees for Degrees : Rio Hondo No. 800.
Increasing dues: Sacramento No. 40, to $18.00; Suisun No. 55 , to
$21.00; Ione No. 80, to $16.00; Eden No. 113, to $18.00; Valley No.
135, to $18.00; Mission No. 169, to $18.00; Northern Light No. 190, to
$18.00; Downey No. 220. to $20.00; Bakersfield No. 224, to $22.00;
Covelo No. 231, t-0 $ 15.00: Hesperian No. 264. to $18.00; Olive Branch
No. 269, to $25 .00; Arroyo No. 274, to $20.00; Santa Paula No. 291,
to $24.00; Ontario No. 301, to $18 .00; Whittier No. 323, to $40.00;
West Gate No. 335, to $21.00; Willits No. 365. to $24.00; U nity No.
368, to $30.00; Jewel No. 374, to $15.00; Fillmore No. 379, to $20.00:
Huntington Beach No . 380, to $18.00; Apollo No. 396, to $18.00 ; Sierra
Madre No. 408, to $22.00; Pittsburg No. 429, to $20.00; Claremont No.
436, to $ 18.00; Lancaster No. 437. to $18.00; Park No. 449, to $24.00;
San Pasqual No. 452, to $22.00; Blythe No. 473, to $20.00; Thousand
Oaks No. 478, to $21.00; Fellowship No. 480, to $21.00; Woodstock
No. 491. to $18.00; Acorn No. 494, to $24.00; Palms No. 512, to $2 1.00;
Argonne No. 51 4, to $18.00; Euclid N o. 519, to $22.00; Piedmont No.
521, to 24.00: U topia No. 537, to $20.00; Lakeshore No. 551 , to $24.00;
Foothill No. 564 , to $18.00; Chateau Thierry No. 569, to $20.00 ; Indian
Rock No. 638, to $21.00; James A. Foshay No. 641, to $20.00; Menlo
Park No. 651 , to $25.00; Fontana No. 653, to $20.00; Ojai No. 663, to
$25.00; Kaweah No. 665, to $18.00; M eridian No. 667, to $20.00; San
Gorgonio No. 668, to $18.00: Carmel No. 680, to $20.00; Albany No.
686, to $18.00:· Oildale No. 688, to $25.00; Orinda No. 704, to $25.00 :
Rim of the World No. 711, to $20.00; Hunters Point Naval No. 706. to

76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$21.00; Los Altos No. 712, to $20.00; Kit Carson No. 734, to $20.00;
Lakewood No. 728, to $21.00; Hillsborough No. 737, to $24.00; Opportunity No. 740, to $18.00; Lawndale No. 753, to $20.00; Avenal No.
772 , to $15.00; Mojave No. 783, to $20.00; Scepter No. 808, to $20.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: California No. 1; Pentalpha No.
202; Welcome No. 255; King Solomon's Seaport No. 260; West Gate
No. 335; Ocean Park No. 369; Lincoln No. 470; Fellowship No. 480;
Fremont No. 497; Ionic No. 520; Chateau Thierry No. 569; Francis K.
Shattuck No. 571; Hillcrest No. 573; Fortitude No. 624; Alta Loma
No. 643; Centennial No. 729.
Legal Holidays: Larchmont No. 614.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: York No. 423.
Re Charity Committee: Hartley No. 199; Bakersfl.eld No. 224:
Liberty No. 299; Porterville No. 303; West Gate No. 335; Ocean Park
No. 369; La Mesa No. 407; Arlington N o. 414; Upla nd No. 419; Inglewood No. 421; Lancaster No. 437; Cahuenga No. 513; Larchmont No.
614; Victorville No. 634; A . F . E. Irwin No. 645; Modesto No. 675;
Rosemead No. 702.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Golden Gate Speranza No. 30; Crescent
N o. 45; Enterprise No. 70; St. Helena No. 93; Alameda No. 167:
Buckeye No. 195; Rio Vista No. 208; Inyo No. 221; Santa Ana No. 241;
Pomona No. 246: Mount Shasta No. 281; Silver Gate No. 296; Covina
No. 334: San Fernando No. 343; Palo Alto No. 346; H ollywood No.
355; El Centro No. 384; East Bay No. 489; Covenant No. 527; North
Hollywood N o. 542: Point Firmin No. 558; Los Cerritos No. 674:
Barstow No . 682; Palm Springs No. 693; M accabee U.D.; Boron U.D.

One Lodge changed the date of its Stated Meeting. one increased its
fees, one reduced its affiliation fee, three increased their dues, four conferred authority on the Charity Committee, five increased the Charity
Committee's authority, and one reduced the authority of the Charity
Committee.
STATED MEETING (Article III: C.M.C. Section 356):
19 Lodges.
Changing date: 17 Lodges.
Changing time : 1 Lodge.
Provision for legal holidays: 1 Lodge.
FEES (Article VIII: C.M.C. Section 354): 18 Lodges.
For Degrees:
Revising: 1 Lodge.
Increasing : 12 Lodges.
Decreasing: 3 Lodges.
For Affiliation :
Increasing : l Lodge.
Rescinding: I Lodge.
DUES (Article IX : C.M.C. Section 356): 65 Lodges.
Increasing: 65 Lodges.
Decreasing : None.
CHARITY COMMITTEE (Article X : C.M.C. Section 360):
17 Lodges.
Increasing authorization : 17 Lodges.
In addition, your Committee reviewed
19 RESOLUTIONS FOR REMOVAL OF PLACE OF MEETING ( C.M.C. Sections 372, 373).
The particular Lodges are tabulated in Exhibit B of the Grand Secretaey's Report, except only the following whose amendments became
effective after that report had gone to the printer:
Increasing dues: Eden No. 113, to $18.00; Santa Paula No. 291, to
$24.00; Willits No. 365. to $21.00: Claremont No. 436 , to $18.00; San
Pasqual No. 152, to $22.00; Scepter No. 808, to $20.00.
Removal of Place of Meeting: Oakland No. 188.
AU of the reviewed adoptions, amendments, and resolutions were
found in order. This constitutes high commendation of the officers of the
very great majority of Lodges who carefully followed our Masonic Code.
and of the efficiency, diligence, and patience of the Grand Secretary's
office in guiding the few who initially did not.
The matter of holidays remains troublesome. Article III of the Uniform Code, which permtis exceptions to the regular date of the stated
meeting of a Lodge. limits the exceptions to legal holidays. These must
be specifically named; otherwise an officer who is not a lawyer (and
many who are lawyers!) may be in doubt as to what days are meant to
be exceptions and what are not. Monday night Lodges will find "New

RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Oakland No. 188: South San Francisco
No. 212; Downey No. 220; Sequoia No. 349; Ocean Park No. 369:
Fellowship No. 480; Albert Pike No. 484; Fremont No. 497; Capital
City No. 499; Chateau Thierry No. 569; Francis K. Shattuck No. 571;
Hillcrest No. 573; Elmhurst No. 610; Fortitude No. 624; Normal Heights
No. 632: Crossroads No. 696; Westminster No. 787; Koolau No. 801;
Manhattan No. 817.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on By-Laws:
Since the l l 6th Communication of this Grand Lodge your Committee on By-Laws has reviewed the following 115 amendments to the bylaws of constituent Lodges adopted pursuant to California Masonic
Code, Sections 365. 366, and 339:
UNIFORM CODE OF BY-LAWS adopted IN TOTO ( C.M.C.
Sections 339. 349): 26 Lodges.
In adopting the Uniform Code these changes, not tabulated below.
were made:

77

78

79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Year's Day" preferable to "January 1." and "Independence Day" preferable to "July 4," because the preferred designations leave no doubt
that the exception applies when these days are celebrated on Monday
in years in which January 1 or JuJ,y 4 fall on Sunday.
The Lodges are reminded, too. that the $25.00 contribution to the
Masonic Homes, the $1.00 contribution to The George Washington
National Memorial. and the present $9.00 contribution to the California
Masonic Memorial Temple. are covered by Grand Lodge law and are
in addition to. and not a part of. the fees of the Lodge. None of these
should be included in the fees which the Lodge specifies in Article VIII
of its by-laws.
Your Committee especially commends those Lodges which have
brought their by-laws up to date by adoption of the present Uniform
Code of By-Laws in toto. These are the by-laws of the Lodge. whether
adopted by the Lodge or not (California Masonic Code, Section 340);
and when they have been completed and adopted recently the officers.
in conducting their Lodge. may with fu!J confidence refer to the information they contain.
We move approval by Grand Lodge of the foregoing amendments
and resolutions, and we move the adoption of this report.
Adopted.
EXHIBIT C

No. 1875-(Re-trial). A member of Moneta Lodge No. 405. Expelled
April 7, 1966.
No. 1880-A member of Oakland Lodge No. 188. Expelled October 6.
1965.
No. 1881-A member of Fairfax Lodge No. 556. Acquitted October 7,
1965.
No. 1882- A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Expelled October 7,
1965.
member of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212. Expelled
1883-A
No.
August 5, 1965.
No. 1884-A member of Rialto Lodge No. 582. Expelled November 2,
1965.
No. 1885-A member of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224. Expelled December 2, 1965.
No. 1886-A member of Ashland Lodge No. 798. Expelled January 3,
1966.
No. 1887-A member of a Massachusetts Lodge. Expelled February 3
.
1966.
February
No. 1888-A member of Heritage Lodge No. 764. Expelled
7, 1966.
No. 1889-A member of Anacapa Lodge No. 710. Expelled February
8. 1966.
No. 1890-A member of Capital City Lodge No. 499. Suspended February 4, 1966.
No. 1891-A member of Meudell Lodge No. 695. Expelled March 2
.
1966.
No. 1892-A m~mber of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Acquitted
December 2, 1965.
No. 1893-A member of Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295. Expelled March
2. 1966.
No. 1894-A member of Garden Grove Lodge No. 586. Expelled
March 14, 1966.
No. 1895-A member of Magnolia Lodge No. 242. Expelled January 4
.
1966.

TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1469-Petition for restoration. A member of Mount Olive Lodge
No. 506. Expelled October 5, 1955.
for restoration. A member of La Mesa Lodge No.
1560-Petition
No.
407. Expelled December 2, 1957.
No. 1577-Petition for restoration. A member of Hawaiian Lodge No.
21. Expelled February 5, 1958.
No. 1637-Petition for restoration. A member of Ingkwood Lodge No.
421. Expelled July 1, 1959.
No. 1792-Petition for restoration. A member of Elysian Lodge No.
418. Expelled April 4, 1963.
No. 1761-Petition for restoration. A Fellow Craft of San Leandro
Lodge No. 744. Expelled August 7, 1962.
No. 1772-Petition for restoration. A member of Pyramid Lodge No.
562. Expelled October 2. 1962.
No. 1820-Petition for restoration. A member of Solano Lodge No.
229. Expelled December 2, 1963.
No. 1842-( Re-trial) A member of San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214.
Originally Suspended October 6, 1964.
No. 1853-Petition for restoration. A member of San Gorgonio Lodge
No. 668. Expelled March 1, 1965.
No. 1863-Petition for restoration. A member of San Francisco-Victory
Lodge No. 360. Expelled May 5, 1965.

No. 1896-A Fellow Craft of Bell Lodge No. 483. Expelled May 5
.
1966.
No. 1897- An Entered Apprentice of King David's Lodge No. 209.
Expelled April 4, 1966.
No. 1898-A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Expelled April 6
.
1966.
No. 1899-A member of a Philippines Lodge (dual member of Lebanon
Lodge No. 495). Expelled March 20, 1966.
No. 1900-A member of Koolau Lodge No. 801. Acquitted July 6
•
1966.

81

VROCEEOINGS OP 1"HE

GRAND LODGE O F C/\ LI PO R N IA

No. 1901-A member of San Gabriel Lodge No. 546. Expelled July 6.
1966.
No. 1902-A member of Forest Hill Lodge No. 534. Expelled August
3. 1966.
No. 1903---A member of Torrance Lodge No. 447. Expelled August 5.
1966.
No. 1904-A member of Carmel Lodge No. 680. Expelled September 6,
1966.
No. 1905-An Entered Apprentice of Truckee Lodge No. 200. Expelled
August 4, 1966.
No. 1906---A member of Damascus Lodge No. 648. Expelled September
6. 1966.

We wish to emphasize the importance of a Lodge taking im mediate
action by voting on a petition for restoration . The Committee has pointed
out many times in the past that although Grand Lodge is not bound by
the vote of the former Lodge we are influenced by it. The Com mittee
must consider many factors such as the gravity of the offense, the leng th
of the expulsion and the rehabilitation and present attitude of the petitioner. It must also consider that restora tion by the Grand Lodge does
not automatically restore the petitioner to membership in his former
Lodge. An adverse vote by the Lodge is therefore an important, alt hough
not totally determinative, factor in our decision.
We have carefully considered all the petitions and we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: that the petitions for restoration in the following trial
records be granted:
No. 1577, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
No. 1820, Solano Lodge No. 229
and that the petitions in the following trial records be denied :
No. 1469, Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
No. 1560, La Mesa Lodge No. 407
No. 1637, Inglewood Lodge No. 421
No. 1792, Elysian Lodge No. 418
No. 1761, San Leandro Lodge No. 744
No. 1772, Pyramid Lodge No. 562
No. 1853, San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668
No. 1863, San Francisco-Vic tory Lodge No. 360.
Adopted.

80

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on Grievances reports as follows : Twenty-eight trial
records have been referred to our Committee and twenty-two of them
are considered in this omnibus report. The others will be covered by
special reports which will be given by members of the Committee.
Once more we urge the Lodges to see that copies of charges filed
are sent at once to the Grand Secretary. and that forms for proceedings
be obtained from him. All the trial forms which are in the main book
of the Masonic Code have been repealed and the standardized forms
furnished by the Grand Secretary should be used.
When charges are filed with a Master and they state a Masonic
offense he should proceed at once as directed by our Code. An unpleasant
job should be done as promptly and as carefully under our law as possible.
In Trial Records Nos. 1880, 1881. 1882, 1883, 1884, 1885, 1886.
1887, 1889, 1890, 1891, 1892, 1894, 1895, 1896, 1897, 1898, 1902. 1903.
1904, 1905 and 1906, we find that proper procedure has been followed.
that the results are supported by the record in each case, and that there
are no miscarriages of justice.
Deeming himself disqualified, Brother McCourtney did not participate in the discussions or decisions in Trial Record No. 1898.
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED: That in each of the trial records above-mention ed
the action taken and the result thereof be ratified, approved and confirmed.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORDS Nos. 1469, 1560, 1577, 1637, 1761.
1772, 1792, 1820, 1853, AND 1863
Petitions for restoration have been referred to the Committee on
Grievances in the foregoing trial records.
In two cases, Nos. 1560 and 1761, the petitioner has failed to first
notify the Lodge which expelled him as required by Section 767, C.M.C.

TRIAL RECORD No. 1875
The accused , a member of Moneta Lodge No. 405, was convicted of
one count of bigamy and four counts of forgery in the state courts, and
was committed to a correctional institution. Notice of intended exp ulsion
under Section 732 C.M.C. was given by the Lodge.
The accused plead not guilty and wrote a letter demanding a Masonic
trial which was set for July 22, 1965. The accused wrote a number of
letters stating he would be released from the correctional institution the
forepart of September and asked that the trial be continued for sixty
days so he could personally appear and present facts showing his innocence. His request was denied and at the trial he was not presen t or
represented.
He appealed and your Committee felt that a reasonable continuance
should have been granted to enable him to present his defense. Accordingly the purported expulsion of the accused was reversed and the matter remanded to the Lodge with directions to retry the case after a proper
summons was served. New charges, consisting of one specification of
bigamy and four of forgery. were filed and the accused was properly

82

PROCEEDING S OF THE

served. He appeared at the trial without counsel. claiming he had been
unable to obtain one, and after some proceedings the matter was continued to enable the accused to secure counsel. On reconvening it appeared that the accused was still unable to obtain counsel and the trial
continued with the accused representing himself. The accused was found
guilty on all specifications and the penalty fixed at expulsion. The
accused has again appealed.
Your Committee feels that the accused was given every opportunity
both to procure counsel and to present all of the facts favorable to him
in defense. His trial was fairly conducted and the procedure was correct
in every detail. There is no basis for further proceedings . We, therefore.
offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D: That the finding of guilt and the expulsion of the
member of Moneta Lodge No. 405, F. & A . M .. are ratified, affirmed
and approved.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORD No. 1888
The accused, a member of Heritage Lodge No. 764, was charged
with two counts of unmasonic conduct in that he had stated to several
brethren and written a letter to the Secretary of his Lodge that he no
longer believed in God and that he no longer believed in the tenets of
Freemasonr y. The accused was duly served and did not answer. The
letter to the Secretary is a part of the record and states:
"Please remove my name from the roster of Heritage Lodge No.
764 as I no longer believe in God or the tenets of Free Masonry"
The accused also repeated his statements to several brethren. The Master of the Lodge was appointed Trial Master and after investigation
found the accused guilty of both counts and of unmasonic conduct and
fixed the penalty at expulsion.
"Landmark Nineteenth' ' as expressed in "The Foundation of Masonic Law" authorized by this Grand Lodge to be published in the
appendix to the California Masonic Code is as follows:
"A belief in the existence of God as the Grand Architect of the
Universe."
This Grand Lodge has repeatedly held that while Masonry is not a
religious order, it requires a belief in the existence and omnipotence of
a Supreme Being as a qualifkation for membership. ( 1857 Proc. p. 105;
1894 Proc. pp. 541, 771; 1900 Proc. pp. 644, 902). And also that making
a public or even a private declaration that one does not believe in God
is a Masonic offense for which charges should be preferred a nd, if found
guilty, the accused should be expelled. This Grand Lodge has also held
that no Brother will be permitted to resign from Masonry or renounce
the Order. He may withdraw from a particular Lodge of which he is a
member, but to renounce Masonry is an offense and should be punished.
( 1900 Proc. pp. 641, 899.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

We feel that this man has no place in Masonry and therefore offer
the following Resolution:
RESOLVE D . that the finding of guilt and the expulsion of the member of Heritage Lodge No. 764 are ratified, affirmed and approved.
Adopted.
TRIA L RECORD No. 1893
This case appears to fall squarely within the provisions of Section
733 C.M.C. and, in the opinion of your Committee, requires a reversal
of the purported expulsion and a trial of the accused.
The chronology of the proceedings is important and must be followed
closely.
On February 24 , 1965, accused was convicted of and sentenced for
the crime of manslaughte r.
On June 17, 1965, a notice was served on him, pursuant to Sec. 732
C.M.C. that a record of the conviction had been filed in the Lodge and
that, unless he demanded a trial within 60 days, he would be declared
expelled on September l , 1965. This date, September 1, will hereafter
be referred to as the noticed date.
On August 12, 1965, within 60 days of the notice . accused wrote the
Lodge demanding a trial. On August 14. charges were preferred by the
Junior Warden under Section 733 C.M.C.
The trial demand of the accused, dated August 12. is clearly a
dema nd for trial under Sec. 732 and was properly complied with by
the filing of the August t 4 charges.
Under existing Masonic law, a trial demand under Sec. 732 cannot
be withdrawn after the noticed da te: in this case. September 1, t 965.
See: C.M.C. Sec. 733b and Trial Record No. 1595. Proceedings of
Grand Lodge, 1958, p. 277.
On September t 6, 1965. accused fi led a written withdrawal of his
demand for trial.
In the opinion of your Committee this withdrawal was ineffective and
impermissible, and all proceedings thereafter taken, including the purported expulsion of the accused, are void and of no effect until he has
had the trial as demanded.
In order to clarify the course of further proceedings . if ordered, your
Committee wishes to state that the trial referred to by it is the trial of
the charges preferred on August t 4, 1965, which charges comply with
Sec. 733, C .M.C.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D. that the purported expulsion of Charles Adams Johns
by Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295 is reversed and set aside and the Lodge
is directed to proceed against him as provided in the California Masonic
Code.
Adopted.

84

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

TRIAL RE~ORD No. I 899
A member of Walana Lodge No. 13 of the Philippines was expelled
by that Lodge on March 20, I 963. He was also a member of Lebanon
Lodge No. 495.
Section 432, subsection 6, of the California Masonic Code provides
that expulsion of a plural member in one Lodge immedia tely terminates
his membership in all Lodges.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED: That the member of Walana Lodge No. 13, expelled
by tha t Lodge, be declared expelled from Lebanon Lodge No. 495 as of
March 20. 1963.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORD No. 1900
A member of Koolau Lodge No. 801 was charged with making a
false statement to the investigating committee in that he alleged he was
married, when in fact he was living with a woman to whom he was not
married. He was further charged with becoming involved in a domestic
controversy with her, whereupon she separated from him disclosing he
was never married and had two illegitimate children.
The accused plead not guilty in the Lodge. A trial by a commission
was had and he was found not guilty. Your Committee has found, however, that the trial record indicates that one o f the witnesses and the
accused were not sworn as Mas ter Masons.
We therefore offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED: That the finding of not guilty in Trial Record No.
1900 be reversed and the matter be remanded for a new trial.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORD No. 1901
. A member of San Gabriel Lodge No. 546 was charged giving fals ifying answers in his application for the degrees in Masonry in that he had
in fact been rejected by a Lodge previously a nd had been convicted of
a crime, both of which he ha d denied in his application.
Th e Trial Master made a finding that the accused did not request
an investigation w as had, the accused was found guilty, and
trial.
a
expelled. The record indica tes the accused mis takenly sent his plea of
not guilty and request for trial to the accuser, the Junior W a rden,
instead of the M as ter.
The Committee therefore feels tha t the a ccused should be allowed
the privilege of a trial.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the finding of guilt and the expulsion of the
accused member in Trial Record 1901 be reversed and the matter remanded to San Gabriel Lodge No. 546 with directions to again notify
the accused and allow him the opportunity of a trial.
Adopted.

85

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT D
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
Issued September 1. 1965 through September 1, 1966 ( 661 )
Total Issued to Date, 10631
NAME AND LODGE NO.

D'-TR OP RAISING

NAME ANO LODGE NO.

D'-TE OP RAISING

Abell, Frank J. (<f89) ___ ............... ti.29-15 Benton, Elisha J. (H S) .......- ....... 3- 8- 15
Abrahams, Harry W. (120) ........ 1-20- 16 Berbower, Melvin R. (SO<f ) __________ 5- <f-16
Adams. Arthur H . (327) .............. 9-30-15 Bergschicker·, William E . (21 7) .. 3-30- 16
Adams, Charles C. (<fM) ............ <f-2-f-1 6 Bettencourt, Jack E . (215) .......... 2-24- 16
Adams, John J. (37-t) ...____............ 3-16-16 Bickel, Louis L. (H O) .................. 5-2-t- IS
Ager. Arthur F. (37) _·-··············· 7- 8-16 Birkel. W llllam L. ( 346) ·-·---------·· 12-29-1 5
Alberts, Julius H. (633) - -·-----·----·· 9-27- 15 Birmingham, Earl B. (H9) .......... 12- 1- 15
Alford, DeLonza M . ( 139) .......... 3- 11-J<f Blan<:hard, John H. (369) ............ 6-2-t-13
Allard, Joseph A. (2-t6) ................ <f-25-16 Blanchard, Wallace E. (309) ...... 3-23- 16
Allen, O anlel (620) ...- ·--·--··----··-· 12-11- 15 Bloch, Fernand, ( 120) ··-----------····· 8- 18-15
Allen. Edgar F. (708) ..•.... - ......... 11 -15- 15 Blodgett, Jared G. (H S) .............. 9- 3-15
Allen. Thomas J. (13) .................. 5-17- 16 Blois. Milton L. (10) .................... 1- 18- 15
Ambler. Cyrus E . (352) ............... 10-29-15 Blois, Stanley L. ( JO) ····----·········- 5-29- 16
Anderson, Andrew M. (378 ) ...... 5-20- 16 Bohr, Ferdinand F. ( 455 ) ·---·---···- 3- 6-16
Anderson, George E . (327) .......... 10-21-15 Botzbach, Fred E. ( 267) .............. I 1-20- 15
Anderson. Robert S. (61) _____...... 11-20- 15 Bovey, John C. ( 166) ..................•. 1-26-16
Andre, William L. (616) ...- ......... 5-26- 16 Bowman, Fred W . ( 382) ···- ·-------.1 1-15-1 5
Armknecht, Louis F. (169 ) .......... 8- 17-15 Boyd, Grover C. (356) ................ 7-26-1 5
Armstron9, Walter H. ( 22) ........ 5-20-16 Boyles, Walter R. (32-t ) .............. <f-27- 16
Aurich , Gabriel (3H) .................. 3-29-16 Bradas, John (212) ...........- -·-------·- -t-22-15
Badger, Bevan J. (H9) ................ -t-19-16 Braden, Leonard C. W . (<fl O) ...• 4-22- 16
Baer, Frank E. (605!·----·-··--·········12- 8- 15 Bremser, Arthur H . ( 290) ............ 11-29-1 5
Baer, Louis A. (<f66 .................... 12-16-15 Brenton, W illiam 0. (655) .......... 7- t<f-1 6
Bahr. Peter R. (225 -------··-···---···-1 0-19-15 Breuner, Louis J. (20) ···-···--·····-!0-28- 15
Baker, Ben H. ( 39-t) ...................... 6-26-16 Bridges, William 0. (<fOS) .......... 10-20-15
Baker, Robert S. ( 188) ................ 12- <f-15 Brien, Ewing G . (327) .................. 5- 1- 16
Ballestrem, Alphonse A. (336 ) .... 7-15-16 Brier, Leland F. (583) ....•............. 7-15-15
Barber, Justin F. ( 191) ....._......... 7-15- 15 Briggs, Edgar W . ( 123) ______________ 2-26- 16
Barlow , Orrin M . (H9) ................ 5- i.t6 Brink, Guy L. (215) .......- -- ·--·---·· 3-H - 16
Barnes. Neil U. (478) .................. 6-27- 16 Broock, Frederick C. (1 87) .......... 8- 17-15
Barr, Adam A. (556) .................... 2-26-15 Brown, Earl T. (392) .................. 5-15-16
Barricks. Louis J. ( 180) ................ 7-29- 15 Brown, E arle W . (3-t9) ................ <f-25- 16
Barrier, Thomas W . ( 351) .......... 11-29-15 Brown, Norman F. ( 192) ............ 6- 10- 15
Bates, Joseph B. (-tOO)---·········--··· 5-11- 16 Bruch, Fred ( 1-t )·------ ······-···------·· 6-17-16
Bauer, Paul A. (3-t7) .................... <f- H-16 Brunda ge, Josefh w. (191) ........ 5-31- 16
Beach, C. L. ( 87) .......................... 5-11-16 Bruning, John . ( I 13) .................. 2- 19-16
Beal, Darold L. (423) ·--- ········-···- 9- 10-15 Brunnier, H enry J. (<f81l---------····· 11-1 8- 15
Beale, Harry W . (Hl) ................ 10-29-15 Buckman, Archibald F. ( 370) ...... 9-2-t- 1S
Beall, Cyrus D. (605) --·····--·--- 5- 8-16 Buckman, Royal E . (-t07) ............ 5-10- 16
Beaton, Rodrick H. (332) ........._. 6-15-16 Bull. Ebner A. (369) .·-·--------····- 8- 1- H
Beatty, John I. (<f08) .................... 7-2-t-15 Bullock, Harold R. (5-tO) ............ 5-27-16
Beatus. Gers~ . (<f2) ............. _....... 3-30-16 Bush, Sta nley D. (-t-48! ................ 5-22- 16
Beaudine, W ilham W . (-tl8) ....•. ll- 11- 15 Button, Roswell S. (61 ·---------······11- 15- 15
Becker, Alfred C. (3-t6) ................ 10-28-15 Byles. Edward L. (663 ................ 11-20- 13
Bttker, George H. ( 169) ........ _.._ 9-29-15 Byrne, Robert P. (21) _______·-···--·· 5- 17-16
Beem, Wirt F. (349)--------·········-·· 5- i.07 Cahagan, Allan J. (87) ................ 2-28-16
Beeson, Prede.rick K. (<f78) .......... 6-10-1 6 Cameron, Willard •F . (634) ........ 5- 2-16
Behrend, Bahr (-t81) .................... 9-13-15 Campbell, Ellis E. (293) .............. 6-25-16
Belll, M arco G. (2-t8) .................. 6-15- 16 Canevari, Don A. (57) .._______ ······ 6-1 5-16
Belt, Elmer B. (296) ..•...- .............. 10-29-15 Came, Raymond E. (391) ........_ 3-25-16
Benedict, Frank E. (678) .............. 2-25-15 Caro, Samuel (34-t) ..........·- ·--··--·- 3- 15-16
Benner, Edward A. (30-t) ............ 11-26- 15 Carter, Eber E. (5-tO) ..•.•...- -- ····· 5-27-09
Benett, William B. ( 128) .......... 3-30-15 Casal, Jr.. Francis M. (!) ............ 6-22-16
Bentley, Jama H. (12).----·········· 6- 3-16 Cuey, William M. (<f29) •.- ..- •.• 10-J0.15

86
NAME AND LODGE NO.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
OAT!! OP RAISING

NAME ANO I.OOGB NO.

GRAND LODGE OF GALIPO-RNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Castle. Kent S . (403) .................... 2- 17-16 Edwards. Lloyd E. ( 388) ............ 11 -30-15
Cavagnaro, Joseph f'.. (8) ............ 6-21-16 Eichenhofer, Clarence C. (414) .. 3-27- 16
Chrisope, George L. (290) .......... 9-30- 15 Ekwall, Guy E. (130) ................. 12- 'l-15
Christen, Emil C. (429) ............. .. 10- 9-15 Ely, Eugene L. (191) ......... .......... 9- l-15
Christiansen, Ole M. (354) .......... .. 3-30-16 Enderlin, Georqe J. (233) ............ 6-26- 15
Clanton, Bernie D. (3 15) .............. 9-28-15 English. Bernard E. (678) .......... 3- 8-12
Clark, Douglas ( 346) .................... 6-20-16 Erichsen. Ira G. (678) .................. 3- 9-16
Codington, Arthur D. (349) ........ 2-15-16 Erwin. Ernest S. (346)................ 2- 10- 16
Codington. Frederick B. (349) .... 2-15-16 EtheridY<e, Bailey S. (473) .......... 10- 2-15
Codoni, Edgar V . ( 193) .............. 1-30-15 Evans, enncth R. (178) .............. 6- 6-16
Cohn, Bennie (405) ...................... 1-13-16 Evans, Walter (42) ...................... 7-28-16
Collins. Clarence W . (555) ........ 4-15-16 Ewing. Loren L. (254) ....... .......... 3-22- 16
Comstock, Herbert (244) .............. 3-30-16 Fnnn, Walter J. (20 ) .................... 5-22- 16
Cook, Carleton K. (455 ) .............. 7-13- I 5 Faulk, Reuben A. (291) ................ 2- 1-15
Cook, Edward J. (254) ................ 7-28-16 Fehrensen, Frederick J. Jr. (769) 3- 7-13
Cooke, Frederick 0. (166) .......... 1-26-16 Felger, Louis (335) ...................... 10-14-15
Cooke, John D. (346) .................. 2-23-16 Ferrin. Lorris A. (346) ................ 5- l'l-13
Coombs, Orville W. (319) .......... 11-30- 15 Field , John W. 1283) .................... 3-13-16
Cortner, Francis A. (300) ............ 11-15-15 Finlayson, Frank S. (279) .......... 10- 8- 15
Coursey, John \V. (300) .... .......... 3-27- 16 Fitch, Warren \V. (296) .............. 5-12-16
Courtright, George W. (248) ...... 9- 3-15 Fitzmaurice. William A. (3'l9) .. 6-20-16
Craig, John B. (419) ....................11-1 1-15 Floto, Arthur E. (107 ) .................. 3-20-16
Crivelli, Sr., Charles (106) .......... 8-20-15 Fontana, Giov11nni B. (219) ........ 10-23-15
Crompton, Joseph (38 1 ) .............. 3- 4-1 6 PorknerJ,esse C. (366) ................ 1- 5-04
Crosby. Alfred M. (336) .............. 2-26-16 Frank, aynard M. (9) .............. 3- 7-16
Cullen, Caleb G. (122) ................ 6- 19-16 Franklin, Edwin C. (422) ............ 11-25- 14
Cullen, Albert A. (692) ................ 1- 6-16 Freeman, Richard R. (328) .......... 9-16-15
Culver, Irving S. (396) ................12-21-15 Freer. Charles E. (494) .............. Dec. 19 15
Cunningham, Gordon K. (215) .. 9-16-15 Friedland, Louis (529) .................. 8-14-15
Currie, Robert E. (392) ................ 11-15-15 Pritz, John E. (678) ..................... 8- 2-15
Curry. Preston E . (349) .............. JO•.J0.. 15 Gammon, James M. (3 19) ............ 8-25-15
Curtiss, George W. E. (401) ...... 4-27-16 Gansel, Leonida (41) .................... 11 -24-15
Cypert, Grover C. (351) .............. 8-28-16 Gausti, Frank J. (35) .................... 5-25-16
Darnell, Gordon H. (405) ............ 10-28- 15 Gee, George A. (229) .................. 4-18-16
Davis, Chester A. (264) .............. 11-29- 15 George. Willia m J. (99) .............. 10- 1- 14
Davis, Elmer R. (21) .................... 4-26-16 Gerhnrdt, George T. (22) ............ 11-27-15
Davy, Donovan L. (686) ............ 4-22-15 Gcrtridge, Ca rl H. (57) ................ 9-30-15
Day, Chalmers D. (677) .............. 4-19-13 Gibson, Samuel L. (626) .............. 1- 1-15
Day. Roscoe E. (22) .................... 11-22-15 Gifford, Jay W. (389) ................. 4-19- 16
Deacon. Sheldon T. ( 199) .......... 4- 15-16 Gilberg, John A. (403) .................. 9-28-15
DeBrish, Cxrril L. (49'!) .............. 4-25-16 Giles, Arthur J. (98) .................... 4-22-16
Dellartino, Amedeo (219) ......... ... 5-20-15 Gill, Howard M. (229) ........... -... 12-13- 15
Dessauer, Louis M. ( 136) ............ 7-15-15 Gillam. Frank E . (122) ................ 5-20-16
Dias, Douglas E. (120) ................ 2-17-16 Gilpatric. George E . ( 134) .... -.... 1-1 5-16
Dibben, George R. (506) .............. 4-29-16 Gilson, Edgar L. (675) ................ 12-28-12
Dixon. Clement F. (40) ................ 9-24- 15 Ginther, Charle~ F. ( 319) ............ 2-15-16
D ixon, Richard R. ( 314) .............. 5-23-16 Girerd, Andre P. (17) .................. 7-30-15
Dolson, Rush (106) ...................... 4-15-16 Glenn, W ilfred G. (I) .................. 8-31-11
Domecus, Francois (329) ............ 3- 1-15 Good. Clyde R. (277) .................. 12- 3-15
Dorroh, Carlton C. ( 180) ............ 8-24-16 C.10rdon, Milton C. (65) ................ 2-15- 15
Douglas, John (746) ...................... 2-10-16 Gore, Gordon S. (419) ................ 1 -12- 16
Doxsee, Wilbur H. (168) ............ 12-1 7-15 Gould, Harold (167) .................... 12-23- 15
Dozier, George P. (208) .............. 8- 7-15 Graham. Hubert C. (352) ............ 12- 4-15
Drost, Jacobus (243) .................... 11-18-1 5 Green, G rover C. (575) ................ 7-17-14
Dukelow, Thomas H. (418) ........ 5-18-16 Greer, William H. (576) .............. 12- 4-14
Dundas, William H. (556) .......... 3-3 1- 16 Gregory, John A. (348) ................ 6-22-16
Dunsford, Arthur J. (243) ............ 7-27-16 Griffin, Frederick L. (541) .......... 7- 7-15
Dutton. Robert W. (618) ............ 2-28-16 Grimaud, William E. (329) ........ 3-29-16
Eastin, James H. (561) ................11-26-15 Grimshaw, James L. (2 1) .............. 9-22-15
Edson, Earl W. (633) .................. 7-31-15 Guenther, Wallace W. (544) ...... 3-17-16
Edward&, Granville D. (t17} ...... 6- 1-16 Gulley, James W. (33) ................ 3-22-16

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP R/\ISl NC

Gulley. Melville E . ( 188) ............ 2- 9-16
Hague. Harold ( 46 l) .................... 5- 4- 16
Hale, Carl (401) ............................ 7-27-16
Hammer, Frank L. (260) .............. 8-17-16
Hanlon, George J. (20) ................ 8-18-15
Hardwick. H 11 rold L. (346) .......... 4-16-10
Hurgitt. Charles J. ( 315) .............. 11 -23- 15
Harlow, Walter J. ( 139) .............. 6-28-16
Harmon, Burt (202) ..................... 12-2 1-15
Harmon. Lloyd F. (538) .............. 1- 17-1 6
Harris, Abraham (216) ................ 4-17-16
Harr~ s. Ariel C. (727) .................. 7-31-16
Hams. Omer C. (425) .................. 2- 15- 16
Harris, Thomas M. (204) ............ 7- 9-15
Harrison, Al bert R. (254) ............ 1-14-16
Harrison. Bradshaw (704) .......... 3-30-15
Hartman, William F. (200) ........ 10- 7- 15
Hatch, Chesley W . (206) .. ......... 8-14-15
Hawkins, Joseph H . (389) .......... 6-28-16
Heinemann. Walter F. (429) ... _. 4-21-16
Hellyer, George W . (348) .......... 6-24-07
Henderson, Donald W . Sr. (410} 6-14-16
Henderson, Edwa rd (291) ............ I- 7-16
Henry , William R. (226) ........... 4-1 8- 16
Heryford, Clemons B. ( 146) ........ 6-29-16
Hess. Karl F. (290) ...................... 3-30-16
Hewitt, Orrin R. (87) ................... 3-23-1 6
Hicks, Robert S. ( 104) ................ 6-17-15
Hinkley. Myron A. (417) ............ 4-30- 12
Hinton. Walter R. (406) .............. 5-13-15
Hoeft, John E. (699) ................... 5-20- 15
Hoffman, Jacob H . (216) ............ 6- 2-15
Holland. Henry M. (87) ... - ......... 1-23-15
Holland. William D. (348) .......... 7-22-16
Holzhauser. Charl~s M. ( 186) .... 7-22-16
Hornell. John H. ( l) .................... 3- 9-16
Hormg. Walter (415) .................. 7-13-16
Houx, Royal R. (8 1) .................... 9-18-15
Howen. Thomas C. (215) ............ 6-29-16
Hudson, Joseph H. (652) ............ 11- 9-15
Hunt, James E. (507) .................... 8-30-15
Hutcherson, Robert (454) ............ 4-1 0-16
Hyde. Park B. (!13) ............... _... 1-13-16
lsnard, John (135) ........................ 10-26-15
acobsen. George H. (388) .......... 3-28-16
aques, George H. (379) .............. 4-26-16
enne, Frank L. (506) .................. 8- 14-15
ennings, Arthur (214) ................ 3-23-16
ensen, Albin ( 167) ...................... 10- 16-15
ervis, John V . ( 1) ........................ 4-13-16
ewell, W illiam R. (242) .............. 3-16-16
ewett, Oris F. ( 373} .................... 3- 8-16
obe, Henry G. (280) .................... 4-21 -16
ohansen, Andrew M. (435) ........ 9- 3-15
ohnson, Arthur C. (685) ............ 12- 2-15
ohn.son, Benjamin (290} ....... - ..... 1-27- 16
ones, Calvert V . (290) ................ 7-13-16
ones, Elehn R. (287) .................. 9-1 8-15
ones, Marcus M. ( 303) .............. 9-30-15
ones, William E. (718) .............. 3-14-16
ordan, Arthur L. (449) ................ 2-23- 16

NAME AND LODGE NO.

87
DATE OP RAISING

Jordan, Frederick C . (549) .......... 9-22-15
udd, Lawre nce M. {21) .............. 12- 4-15
udge. Harr H. 168) ........... - ... 10.. 9-15
Just, Ernst 1r (H~) ...................... 3- 6-16
Kass, Sidney). (42) ...................... 4-24-16
Keeler, Martm L. (505) .............. 12- 5-14
Kellogg. James A. Jr. (352) ........ 6-30-14
Kelly, Caro R. (217) .................... 1-26-16
Kelly. Marshall T. (26) ................ 12- 2-15
Kemp, Arthur R. (22) .................. 2-28-16
Kent, Easton (349) ........................ 8-17-15
Kerr. Albert (353) ........................ 5-23-16
Kertcll, George W. {226) ............ 10-28-15
Kirk, Burt N. (490) ...................... 11- 5-15
Kirkman, William C. (471) ........ 6-21-15
Klein, Richard J. (3) ................... .11-15- 15
Klemme, S anford E. (371) .......... 7-11-16
Knauer. Ernest E. (314) .............. 5-20-16
Knoph, Henry T. (22) ................ 5-20-16
Knubel, Harry J. (169) ................ 11-26-15
Kohn. Sa muel (42 ) ........................ 4-17-16
Koontz. Benjamin (243) .............. 3-15-16
Krafft, William H. (204) ............ 2-18-16
Kraus, 0. K. (389) ...................... 7-21 -1 5
Kuuedt, William J. (435) ............ 4-28-16
LaMonte, Thomas W. (659) ...... 5-26-14
Lane. Joseph A. (397) .................. 2-19-16
L~n glie, Melvin (607) .................. 5-18-15
Langpaap, Charles H'. (351) ...... 5-28-14
LaPiere, George W. (346) ............ 8-31-15
Larsen. Louis T. (14'!) ................ 3- l-16
Laughlin, William H. (291) ........ 8-22-13
Lawrence. Ray P. (22) ................ 10-29-15
Lawrie, Hamilton J. (478) ............ 11-26-15
Leach, Roy D. (476) .................... 6-16-16
Leduc, Ed ward B. (455) .............. 5-19-16
Lee, Benjamin P. (21) ................. .12- 8-15
LeGault, Joseph A. (431) ............ 9- 7-15
Lehmann, Arthur H. (127) .......... 9-27-15
Lehnberg, V alfried B. (442) ........ 3-13-16
Leighton, Lloyd W . (124) .......... ll -30- 15
Lemmon, Fred R. (279) ............. -. 4-15-15
Lemmon, William H. (277) ........ 9-15-15
Lenz, William H . (225) .......... _.. J l-16-15
Leonard, Roy E. (475) ................ 5-25-16
LeRoy, Floyd K. (672) ................ 7- 2-12
Levy, Barn?rd J. (344l ................ 5-31-16
Levy, Edwin N. (120 ................ 4-27-16
Lewis, Thomas B. ( 326) .............. 1- 3-16
Lieb, Clyde E. (455) .................... 7-27-15
Lighty, Byron K. (385l ................ 5-30-16
Likens, V irgil B. (235 ................ 1- 5-16
Lingle, Charles R. (452) .............. 3- 9-16
Lishman, Clifford J. (35) ............ 2-19-16
Litton. Cecil S. ( 18I) .................... 10-23-15
Livingston, Clarence (605) .......... 12-18--03
Logan, Arthur E. (325) ................ 8-20..15
Long, John W . (615) .................... 3- 7-16
Long, William W. (377) ............ 3-18-16
Lord, Percy W. (22) ................... .11-20-15
Lowe, Herbert E. (478) .............. 1-11-16

PROCl!.l':OJ.NGS OP TH P,
GRANO LODGE. OP CALIFORN IA
NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATe OP RAISING

Nl\MP. AND LODGE NO.

89

DATE 01' RAISING

Lowe, William B. (352) .............. 12- 4-15 Nelson, Frank<:=·
(362) ................ 6- 5-16
Lower, Arthur J. (255) ................ i-1 8-9i Neubarth.
Edwm A ( 111) .......... 3-22-16
Ludolph, Henry H. (22) .............. 6-26-16 Newell, Percy
D. (147) .............. 7- 8-16
Lunt, Irving R. (i55) ................. . 8-17-15 Newlon,
Lyttle, Arthur L. (476) ................ 7-31-15 Newman,Wilson E . (541) ............ 9-22-15
Jesse G. (385) .............. 3- 7-16
McCutcha n, William A.. Sr.
Newman, Simon W. (120) .......... 2-10-16
( 123) .......................................... 12-18-15 Newton, Daniel
McDowell . James W . (347) ........ 6-24-15 Nichols, WilburL. (339) .............. 11- 8-15
K. (292) ............ 6- 8-16
McKeehan , Cecil T. (35) ............ 9- i-15 N!esen, Erwin
W. (103) .............. 3- 7-16
M cKenzie, Elmer P. ( 117) .......... 3- 28-16 Nikrent, Frederick
A. (351 ) ........ 11 - 15-15
Mcl-1illen, Howard B. (5i6) ........ 1-20-16 Norton, Harry
(215) .................... 11-22- 15
McMurtry . Jr., Leslie B. (I) ...... 3-23-16 Norton. Norvel
I. (363) .............. 7-22-15
M cNab, James (225) ................... .12-28-15 Norza,
McNany, Adam J. (HI) .............. i-18-16 O~lesby,Angelo (219) ..- ............... 7-15-15
John G . . (44) ................ 4- 5-16
Mc Pherson. Stanley E . ( 166) ...... 3-15-16
Jr.. Charles E. (418) ........ 7- 2-15
McQuilk.in, Milford (5 Ii) ............ 4-24-16 Oliver,
O!sen_.
_(346) .................. ...... 10-19-15
MacKenzie, FrancisW . S. (409) 11-27-15 0 Neill.Louis
W ilham J. (353) ............ 10-19-15
M agistrini, Stephen A. (229) ...... 7-24-16 Orr, Robert
C.
Magoon, Alfred K. (371) ............ 4- 7-16 Osler, Albert (37) .................. .... 7- 1-16
Magoon, John H. M. (371) .......... 4-28-16 Owen. Burt G . (267) ...................... 7- 8-16
Major, Ray V. (574) .................... 1- 12-15 Pardee, Fred R. ( 452) ................... .11- 5-15
(421) .................. 4-26-16
Marsh, Frank E. (690) ................ 5-30-16 Parki_nson, Chester
B. (308) ........ 3-31-16
Marshall, Huqli G. (308) ............ 5-18-16 Partridge, Stanley N
. (363) ........ 9-24-15
M assey, Bert T. (290) - ............... 11-25-15 Payson, Clair B.
Mast, Raymond E. (2H) ............ 9-30-15 Pearce, Leigh B. (561) ................ 2- 5-16
Mathews, Frank (397) ................ 8- 3-15 Pearen, William (685) ............... .1 0-25-12
L. (351) ............ 11-15-15
Mattson, Alfred (376) .................. 8- 6-15 Peck, Winfred
Mauzy, Charles S . (IH) ............ 3-21-16 Pepper, Lloyd B.E . (579) .............. 10-27-15
(7%) ................ 11 -30-15
Mehrwein , Maurice C. (38) .......... 7-12-16 Peppers, Leo
W. (180) ................ 2-18-16
Meilink, Charles (410l ................ 9-11-15 Perk.ins, Voltaire D
. (445) .......... 9-27-15
Meisel. Arthur A. (22 ................ 5-13-16 Perry, Harry W
. (269) ................ 5-15-16
Merkl, Marcel L. (354 ................ 2-25-15 Perry.Ro
yE. (661) ...................... 3-30-16
Miehe, John A. (435) .................... 2-11-16 Peterson, Jacob
M. (111) ............ 3-18-16
M~klas. Joseph (687) .................. .. 10-14-15
Peterson,
Miller, Edward A. (335) .............. 2-10-16 Peterson, P eter M. (218) ............ 12- 8-15
William P. (343) ........ 9-18-15
Miller, Ralph E. (596) ................. . 2- 3-16 PBueger, Paul
A. (370) ................ 2-25-16
Miller, Robert A. (385) ................ 3-21-16
Phillips. H
. arry F. (332) .............. 11-11-15
Millett, Ray E. (746) .................... 3-22-16 Piepenbrin
k, Frederick W. (35) 12-22-15
Mills, John. V. (431) .................. .. 2-22-16 Pierson, Clude
M ilot, Edwin S. (370) .................. 7- 9-15 Pincinl, Emilio A. ( 318) ................ 12- 3- 14
(219) .................... 7-29-15
M inard, Chester A. (613) ............ 11-13- 13 Pitchford,
Walter S. (i31) .......... tl-16-15
Mitchell, Edwa.r d T . (226) .......... 6-23-16 Post, Herbert
W.
Mitchell, Harry_ G. (455) ............ 2- 2-16 Postle, Warren (471) ................ 5-19-16
(751) _ ............... 12-30- 15
Mitchell, Roy H . (455) ................ 2-22-16 Powers. Allan
Moe, H arry E. (222) .................... 11-29-15 Prager, Jerome R.F. (460) ................ 4-27-16
(478) .............. 9-29-15
Mohr, Alfred C. ~370j ·················· 8-27-15
Preston, Howard P. (361) .......... 3-14- 16
Mohr, Harry H. 370 .................. 9-18-14 Price, Chalmers
G . (530) ............ 11 - 3-13
Moore, Jesse L. 346 .................. 5-16-16
Prim:, Percy J.
Morgan, John D. (394) ................ 12-27-15 Proctor, Grover (673) .................... 11 -29-13
L. (542) ............ 12- 9-15
Mork, Louis T . (435) .................. 1-1 7-16 Pudlin,
N. (42) .................. 3-12-15
Morris, George L. (358) .............. 4-30- li Ouarg, David
William
Morrison, John ( 351) .................... 8-16-15 Quinn, Enoch B. H. (360) ............ 9-28-14
Morse, Clarence I. (338) .............. 9- 6-15 Racine, Marion (101) ................ 2-19-16
D. (528) ............ 7-12-09
Mortenson , ChrisE. (621) .......... 1-13-16 Ralston,
Clarke P .
3- 2- 16
Muller, Henry C. M. (354) ........ 8-19-15 Randall,
Nath'.'-° B. 174~ ............ 10- 2-15
Munro, William G. (61) .............. 10-29-15 Rankin, Maurice
Munson, Ira D . (392) .................. 4- 19-16 Rawlios, Edward J. 299 ............ 10- 2-15
W . (6 1 ............ 10-15-15
Munz, Arnold (290) ......................11-29-15 Raymond, William
F. ( 139) ........ 8-23-16
Murphy, Franc.is G. ( 194) .......... 6-27-16 Reck. Carlyle
L. (290) .................. 11-29-15
Murray, Charles J. (442) ............ 3-13-16 Reed. John E. (323)
...................... 5-13- 15
Nelson. Fader P . (619) ................ 8-29-14 Reed, Norman E.
(155) ................ 1-24-15

199) ..............

NAME AND LODGE NO,

DATE Of RAISING

NAME ANO LODGE NO.

OATP. 01' RAISING

Rees. John L. (419) .................. .... 11- 7-07 Smith, Ray W.
Rel. George F. (670) ....................12-17-15 Solomone ,John (296) ................ 2-18- 15
C. ( 174) ............ 3-18- 15
Reid. Sr .. William A. (215 ) ........ 12-20-15 Southerlan . George
W. (11 7) .. 7- 6-11
Reinke. Gustave (411 ) ................ 2-21-1 6 Spekker,
Clarence H. (366) ........ 6- 1-16
Rhyne, Berry M. (i 89) ..... ........... 9-25-15 Steele, Joseph G . (604)
................ 11-26-12
Richards, Earl W. (43 1 ) .............. 1-19-15 Steet, Bert C. (723)
.................. .... 11- 11-15
Ridell, Edwin A. ( 168 ) ........ ........ 2- 7-11
Steiskal, Joseph J. ( 198) .............. 6- 5-15
Ridley, Alvin 1189) .................. ... 10-20-15 Steitz, Aaron
C. (352) .................. 11-30- 15
Riley. William E. (41 8) .............. 5-15- 16 Steitz.
C. (247) .................... 2-11- 16
Ritchie, Charles (769) .................. 11-25-15 Stenger,John
E . (540) ........ 4-1 0-11
Roberts, Clarence W. ( 10) .......... 10-23-15 Stephens,Lawrence
Prank W. ( 156) .......... 2-21 -1 2
Roberts, Jr .. Melvin P. (106 ) ...... 8-16-15 Stephenso n, Lawrence
F. ( 372) .. 7-27-15
Roberts. William J. ( 41 ) .............. 3-21-16 Stephenso
n, Walter J. (336) ........ 2-19-16
Robinson, Lawrence R. (675) ...... 1-20-14 Stern, Bruce
M. (210) .................. 12-16-15
Roemer. Robert G. (H O) ............ 4-17-16 Stevens.
Ar~ur L. ( 13) ·····----····· 5-24-16
Rohlfs. Harry C. (1 13) ................ 2- 9-16 Stevens,
Rohwer, Eggert (201) .................. 9-16-15 Stevens. Lollis W . ( 206) .... .... .. .... 8-29-12
Otto J. (159) .................. 8-30- 15
Romanowitz. Charles M. (396) .. 12- 2-15 Stirling , Jo
Rosenfeld, Abraham M. (332 ) .... 3-23-16 Stoll. Leo hn B. (629) .... ·······--···· 7-22-15
. ( 41 ) .......... ........... 7-27-16
Rosenwald, Jesse (120) ................ 6-15-16 Stone, CarlHF.
( 294) .................. .. 6- 6-14
Ross, Albert Hugh (260) .............. 6-26-16 Stont', Charles A.
( 346) .............. 8- 7-15
Ross, Ja mes (389) ................. ........ 1-19-16 Stone. Ralph
Rundle. Glenn F. (667) ................ 4- 8-1 5 Stoops, Earl C. ( 403} ................. 10-28-15
T . ( 42 1) . ................ 6-21-1 6
Sampsell, Paul W. (367) ............ 11-23-15 Sutton,
Charles J. ( 115) ........... .. 6- 1-1 6
Sampson, Leslie E . (168) ............ 12- 3-15 Swan,
Chelsie H . (431 ) .... ......... 2-22-16
Sams, Harry H . (268 ). -............ 7-28-16 Swanson.
Sankey, Eric C. (240) .................. 1-25-16 Tapscott, Albert L. (5 11) ............ 10-21- 15
Scammon, Harrison B. (H9) ...... 4-26-16 Ta ylor, RaRobert M. ( 191) .. ....... 7-28-15
lph D. L. (149 ) .......... 4- 4-16
Scherer, Wilhelm W . (396) ........ 3- 7-16 Teed, John
Schimmel, Nat H. (529) .............. 5- 4-15 Tegrunde, W. (594 ) .__ .... ...... 3-31 -16
Schlieper. Norman H. (327) ........ 3-30-16 Thogode, Irvin W. (103) ......... 11-16- 15
Schmid t, Frank L. (346) ............. 8-31- 15 Thomas, Alvin C. (440) .. .......... 11-11-15
Sc.hmucker, O tto ( 380) ................ 5-22-16 Thomas, Addis E. ( 273) .............. 8-23-15
Schmulowitz, Nat ,(454) .............. 9-13-15 Thomas, G. Aubrey (389) ... . .... 1- 4- 16
Schreibner, Philip (120) .............. 8-15-15 Thomas. John E . (39~) ................ 5-23-16
Schumach e.r, Jay J. (51 1) ............ 2-22-16 ThompsonRa1Ph ~- ( 4:>2 ) ........ .. 4-24-16
Sciavonl, George H. (95) ............10-26-15 Thompson , Edwm T. ( 225) . .. .... 9- 4- I5
Scott, John K. (331) .................. .. 12-29-13 Thomsen. , Richard H. (H9) .. . . 4- 15- 16
Seagrave, Jo hn C. (396) .............. 8-22-16 T homson. Heinrich K. M. (393 ) .. 10- 15- 15
Henry S. ( 492) ........ .... 4-1 7-15
Sears, H oward M . (607) .............. 6- 8-15 Tiedemann
, George \V. (225) .. 1-18- 16
Secor, Lester F. ( 449) .................. 5-10-1 6 T ilton. Calvin
G. ( 492) ................ 2- 1-15
Segal. D aniel D . (520) ............... 5- 17-16 Towner,
Shaeffer, Edward J. (272) ............ 12- 10-1 5 Trivett, Stanley, ('!<ii) ................ 5- 9-1 6
P errin B. \22) .................. 2- 5- 16
Shain, Floyd E. (i37) .............. ... 1- 1-15 Truckenrn
Shaug, Frank 0. (343) ..... .. ........ 2-17-16 Tudor, iller, Wi liam P. (296) 3- 18- 16
Lewis S. (615) ......... ........ 3- 9- 16
Shaw, Lyle.P. (!) ................ ...... 10-28- 15
Everett S. (685) .............. 5-15-15
Shaw, Wilham 0 . (352) ............ 11 -17-14 Turner,
Sherwin, Herbert M . (775) ........ 6- 7-16 Uhlenberg , Christian G. ( 168) .... 12- 18-15
Shira, William J. (6 15) ......... ...... 6-10-16 Uhlig. LOuis A. (206) ........ ··--····· 5-1 6- 16
Ullman, John H. (229) ................. 8-23- 15
Sicotte, Ferdinand R. (349) ...... 12- 1-15 Urtian,
Joseph ( 254) ............... . .. 3-24- 16
Siebert, Harry C. (187) ....... . . 12-20- 15 Urto n, Charles
M . (192) ..... ......... 5- 3-1 6
Silverman, Harold ( 120) ............ 8-10- 16 VanDyke,
David C. (32) .......... 4- 5-1 6
Silverman, Sa muel H. (623) .... 11-29-15 Vane,
Leslie H. (225 ) ..................
Simon, Carl W . ( 127) .... .
.... 11 -29- 15 Van Luven, Harry H . (662) ...... l 1-30- 15
7- 15-15
Simpson, Roy E. (367) ....... .... 6- 7- 16 Vidman,
Joseph ( 127) .............. . 3- 10-16
Sinclair, Alexanda M . (38) . ... 2-24-16
V
oddcn,
Edwartil
W. (292 ) ... ... 6- 15-16
Skeen, Allen A. (57) ..........
.... 3-25- 15 Von
_ . 3-11 - 11
Smith, Charles H. (292) ........ .. 1- 6-16 Von Hagel. George (374) .
Raven, Otto (360) ....... ..... 1-26- 1&
Smith, Frank M. ( 147) ............... 3-24-16
Vore, Marlon E. (652) ...... .. ...... 3-23-16
Smith, Harry K. (450) .................. 9-20-15 Wagenbla
st, Jacob W. (327) ...... 6- 9-16
SmttJi. John L. ( 373) .................... 9- 9-08 Wagner, Louis
A. (397) .. :........... 3-28-16

90

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

NAME /\ND LODG!l NO.

DATE OP RAISING

W ahlbert. H arold E ................... 1-26- 16
Walker, Otis H . (360) ................ 10-18--15
Walker, Willard H. (3 ) .............. 9-13-15
Walker, William C. (452) .......... 8-30-15
Wanner. Albert P. ( 127) ............ 1-31-16
Warming. Claus C. (431) .......... 8- 4-14
Warner, William L. (2H) .......... 10-21-15
Warrick, Harold P. ( 220) .......... 6-17-16
Wasson, Frederick S. (229) ........ 8--25-13
Watkins, Ralph S. (111) ............ 1- 18-16
Watt, Harold L. (306) ................ 6-29-16
Webb, Charles W . (378) ............ 4-29-16
Webb, Joseph C. (450) ................ 2-27-11
Weller. Henry 0. (452) .............. 2-22-16
Wells. Clarence (244) .................. 5-25-16
Wenner, Sr .. Thomas G. ( 429) .. 7- 10-13
Westergaard, James M. (279) .... 10-10-13
Wetmore, Henry G. (358) .......... 4-27-16
Whea tley, H aro ld E. (734) ........ 3- 1-16
Wheeler, Thomas L. (358) ........ 1-24- 16
Wh~te. Daniel A . (422) .............. 12-13-13
White, Walter E. (388) .............. 5- 9-16
Whitehead, Cecil L. (678) .......... 3-22-16
Whittaker, James E. (332) .......... 1-20-1 6
Whittle, William L. (405) .......... 1-13-16
Whomes, Clarence S. (320) ........ 4-29-11
Why, Newton V. (368) .............. 5-23-16
Wigger. Edward L. (455) .......... 4-25-16
Wilker, William G. (388) .......... 2- 8-16
Wilkins, Alfred H. (677) ............ 1-25-15
Wilkinson, Frederick E. (611) .... 6-22-16
Willard, Harold F. (315) ............ 11- 2-15
Williams, Claude (229) ................ 4-29-16

NAME AND lODGl! NO.

O/\TE OP RAISING

Williams, Harold (358) ................ 3-30-16
W illiams, Leland E. (347) .......... 8-22-15
Williams, Oliver J. (400) ............ 4-25-16
Williams. William H . (435) ........ 3-3 1-16
Wilson, Arthur L. (87) ................ 3- 2-16
\Vilson. Clare W .. Sr. (1 10) .... 1- 15-16
Wilson, Paul B. (366) .................. 1-28- 16
Wilson, Swan B. (355) ................ 12-16-15
Winthar, Ernest W. (214 ) .......... 5-11-16
Winton, Jesse W. (301) .............. 4-29-15
Wisdom, Milton V. (325) ............ 2-28-16
Wisdom, William D. (410) ........ 2- 2-16
Wise. Cosmo C. (4-13) .................. 7-18-13
Wise, Lionel (206) ........................ 6 -26- 15
Witkins, Jesse (214) ...................... 4-27-16
Wittman, Jr., Charles W . (400) .. 6- 6-16
Wohlcnberg. Bernard P . (625) .. 6- 19-14
Wolbert, Leslie E. (226) .............. 5-18-16
Wolff. George W. (22) ................ 3-29-16
Wood, Wilbur P. (332 ) .............. 6-15-16
Wood, William A. (225) ............ 6-22-15
Wood. William G. (123) ............ 8-27-14
W right, Harry W. ( 265 \ ............11 - 6-14
Wright, Jacob M. (698) .............. 9-29-15
Wright, Walter F. (3 12) ............ 2- 8-1 1
Yager, George L. (349) .............. 5-20-16
Yates, Eddie W. (373) ................ 11-17-15
Yo~9. Charles~- (408) .............. 5-11-15

Zelmsky. Frederick G. (3·11 ) ...... 9-29-15
Zielke, Paul H. (57) .................... 12-21-15
Zillgitt. Lester B. ( 421 ) ................ 6-21-16
Zimmerman, Otto E. (395) .......... 3-30-16
Zobel. Sidney (495) ...................... 10- 6-15

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
To supervise and direct the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the
Inspectors in the performance of their duties, and to require conformity
with the adopted ritual and work is the first, and most certainly one of
the most encompassing duties ascribed to the Grand Lecturer. In essence, this annual report of the services of the Grand Lecturer is directed
toward the activities carried on in compliance of this pa rticular responsibility, and others. as prescribed in Section 156 of the California
Masonic Code.
During the year there were two changes in the personnel of the
Ritual Committee, 27 new Inspectors appointed to fill vacancies, with
several more having tentative approval for future appointment to existing inspectorships. This is indicative of the responsiveness of the members of the lnspectoral Corps to the recently adopted Committee tenure
policy.
At the dose of last year's Annual Communication, Worshipful

91

Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 3, announced his
decision to retire from service on the Ritual Committee after approximately 14 years of faithful service. Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith .
Grand Master, on my recommendation, appointed Worshipful William
F. Poynter, Past Master of Veritas-Jonathan No. 545, Inspector of the
336th District, San Francisco, to fill the vacancy. Then, early this year,
Worshipful W. Ben Sorrells, A ssistant Grand Lecturer, Division 6,
announced his desire to be relieved of his duties after 10 years of devoted
service. Upon my recommendation, the Grand Master appointed Willia m H. Price, Past Master of E vergreen No. 259, Inspector of the 616th
District, Riverside, to fill this vacancy. Brother P oynter and Brother
Price have amply demonstrated their abilities to carry on in the foo tsteps of their predecessors.
The turnover in the lnspectoral Corps remains at a constant level.
prompted by such factors as change of employment, departure from the
area served, illness, and consideration of the length of tenure. This
latter reason for resigning was best exemplified in the attitude of such
Brothers as Hubert Raymond and Samuel G. Clark, who acknowledged
the joy and satisfaction of serving through the years, and at the same
time expressing the desire to step aside to allow others the opportunity
to serve in the rewarding experience of Inspector in this jurisdiction.
Following the close of our Annual Communication a year ago, at
the request of our Grand Master, a period of instruction was conducted
by the Grand Lecturer to acquaint the new corps of officers with their
new duties and responsibilities, particularly with regard to the Special
Communication:; of the Grand Lodge and Gra nd Lodge Ceremonies.
The wisdom of such instruction is attested to by the positive and dignified
manner in which the various officers have performed their duties at the
various Communications and Ceremonies held during the year, and at
the opening of our A nn ual Communication this morning.
The Ritual Committee met in Sacramento November 26-28 for its
annual review and exemplification of the ritual and lectures, and the
consideration of matters pertaining to the duties and responsibilities of
the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the Inspetcors. Also, the Ritual Committee met during the course of each of the Annual D ivisional Inspectors'
Conferences to discuss matters pertinent to their duties.
During the Spring months. the Inspectors' Conferences were held
as follows :
Div!sions 1 and 2-at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 17-19, conducted by
Worshipful Clare B. Campbell, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division l,
and Worshipful Frank P. Lemen, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 2;
. ~ivision 3-at Santa Rosa, April 22-24, conducted by Worshipful
W1l11am F. Poynter, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 3;
Division 4-at Sonora, June 3-5, conducted by Worshipful Wallace
H. Fiske, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 4;

92

PROCEl!DINGS OP TUE

GRAND LODGE 0P CALIPORNIA

Division 5-at San Diego, May 13-15. conducted by Worshipful
Robert A. Crigler, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 5; and
Division 6-at Long Beach, March 25-27, conducted by Worshipful
W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 6.
The Conferences were made more meaningful to the Inspectors by
the presence of Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith, Grand Master.
Right Worshipful Laurence E. Dayton, Deputy Grand Master, Right
Worshipful John F. Porter, Senior Grand Warden, Right Worshipful
Eugene S. Hopp. Junior Grand Warden, and Most Worshipful Edward
H. Siems, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary. At each conference,
the brethren were inspired by the remarks fitting to the occasion by our
Grand Master as he addressed each group in turn. They were further
encouraged by the thoughts expressed for the future by our Deputy
Grand Master as he projected his thoughts for the year ahead.
The most recent meeting for the purpose of instruction in the Ritual
and lectures was held last Saturday. October 8th. and is designated in
our Code as the Grand Lecturer's Lodge of Instruction for Inspectors.
to be held at the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge. This
session was attended by the entire Ritual Committee and approximately
180 Inspectors. Representative Inspectors from the various Divisions
participated in the presentation of all the ritualistic work and lectures
of the three degrees.
In addition to the foregoing periods of instruction, each Assistant
Grand Lecturer has conducted a regular schedule of Schools of Instruc~
tion for the Inspectors within his Division, covering in addition to the
Ritual and Lectures. such other subjects as balloting, investigations,
reception of the flag. promotion of Grand Lodge committee programs.
and related matters pertinent to the welfare of the Craft.
It is gratifying to observe that the caliber of work presented by the
Inspectors at the Spring Conferences and at the School of Instruction
held last Saturday indicates another positive step forward toward our
ultimate goal of achieving complete uniformity in the work throughout
the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California. The Inspectors cannot be commended too highly for their sincere attention to detail and
their obvious desire to strive for perfection in this great responsibility.
The annual reports of the Inspectors are a further indication of the
tremendous service being rendered throughout our many Masonic Districts of the jurisdiction by this hard working. devoted, and dedicated
group of brothers. Their reports indicate a trend toward consistent
instruction and counselling with the Lodges, and increasing participation in programs and activities within the Lodges of the Districts. Their
reports also indicate instances of problems and difficulties in some
Lodges, and a concern and determination on the part of the Inspector
to assist in whatever manner possible to solve these problems.
May I pause here to acknowledge the fine, unseIBsh and continuous

service rendered by the Inspectors during the year, and to express to
them my deepest thanks for their devoted and conscientious efforts at
the "grass roots" level in behalf of Masonry in general and our Grand
Lodge in particular.
During March of this year. the Grand Lecturer vi£ited and consulted
with the officers of the Lodges of Hawaii. conducted the annual School
of Instruction for the Inspectors and Officers' Coaches of the various
Lodges. and conducted a special School for Candidate Coaches in
Honolulu. It is gratifying to observe, and to assure you, the continuing
improvement in the work in our sister state. It is testimony to the
conscientious and devoted service of our three Inspectors on the isla nds.
the Officers' Coaches who give so unstintedly of their time. and the
Brethren and officers of the Lodges who carry forth the torch of Masonry in this very important segment of our jurisdiction. Their hospitality
is warm. generous. and. I might add, sometimes overwhelming.
During the year it w as my privilege to visit the jurisdictions of
Nevada, Texas, and Louisiana, and to learn something of their varied
systems of control over the Ritual and the teaching of the work. During
the Annual Communication s of the Grand Lodge of Nevada. at Reno.
and the Grand Lodge of Texas, at Waco, opportunity was afforded to
consult and compare practices and procedures with our counterparts in
those jurisdictions; and in Louisiana. in company with our Grand Master.
Myron E. Smith. much information and printed material was obtained
from their genial Grand Secretary, D. Peter Laguens, Jr.
The program for the education of our Candida tes through the Candidate Coaches' Handbook program, as indicated by the Inspectors' annual
reports, continues to increase in favor and implementation . This program .
which we feel is vital to the growth and progress of our Fraternity. will
continue to demand our attention to achieve greater effectiveness in this
area of our endeavors. We ask that the Masters and Wardens of our
Lodges share this concern and determination with us.
Our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith, has displayed an earnestness in all things Masonic, and in sharing with him
this phase of responsibility to our Grand Lodge, we express to him our
sincere thanks for his great concerns for the success of our activities, and
his ready helpfulness in promoting the principles, ideals, and progress of
our great order.
We have found our Grand Secretary. Most Worshipful Edward H.
Siems. to be most helpful. as in the past. in various capacities during the
year. He and his staff have been most helpful in keeping our procedures
and communication s on schedule. and again merit our appreciative
thanks.
In closing, your Grand Lecturer is happy to assure you that this
past year has afforded ample evidence of the continual uphill course
toward the achievement of the goals of this office-Confor mity to our

93

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

established Ritual as taught by the Ritual Committee. Uniformity of the
work in the constituent Lodges, and steady progress toward the ideal
of Excellence in our work. The progress that has been made with the
assistance of our Inspectors, is in a great measure due to the groundwork
es tablished in our present system by my predecessors in this office. I
am particularly grateful to the Past Grand Lecturers with whom I have
counselled during the year-Most Worshipful Leslie E. Wood , a fellow
Sacramentan, who has been endowed with a storehouse of experience;
Very Worshipful Elbert W . Davis, who has been helpful on many
occasions during the year; andVery Worshipful Donald G . Ca mpbell.
whose devotion to the responsibilities of the office of Grand Lecturer will
ever continue to be an inspiration to me.
Respectfully submitted ,
HAROLD N. RICHARDS.
Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Finance.

At the beginning of the year, the Board decided to meet monthly as
a whole Board, alternating from north and south and at such times most
convenient to the line officers. Heretofore, full Board meetings were
held quarterly with the north and south trustees meeting separately every
other week in the north and in the south to expedite the work of the
Board. The plan employed this last year seems to have bound the Board
together as a working Board and consequently more adequately performed the Board's functions.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the 14th annual report together with the reports of the Superintendents
of our Homes and the financial reports of the Treasurer and the Secretary. The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco, California on October
15, 1965 for the purpose of organizing. The election of Laurence Dayton,
Deputy Grand Mas ter, John F. Porter, Senior Grand Warden, and
Eugene S. Hopp, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the
Board and in a motion duly made, seconded and carried , they were
elected members of the Board. The Grand Master-elect reported the
reappointment of Past Grand Master Phil N . Myers and the appointment of Donald G. Campbell as Trustees of the Board and on motion
duly made, seconded and carried they were elected members of the
Board.
L. Marold Anderson was elected President of the Board and John F.
Porter, Senior Grand Warden. was elected Vice President. Paul A.
Pflueger. Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California, and Edward H . Siems, Grand Secretary, by virtue of their Grand
Lodge offices, are Treasurer and Secretary respectively of the Masonic
Homes of California.
The Deputy Gra nd Master, Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, and
the following compose the Board:
PhilN.Myers
1966
Edward J. Blickfeldt
Alfred F. Breslauer
1967
Edward V. Stewart, Jr.
L. Harold Anderson
1968
Donald G . Campbell

95

U NION CITY

This past year has been an eventful as well as successful year in
many ways. The res idents that were receiving nursing care on the fourth
floor of the Home. were transferred to the fifth floor of Adams Hall in
August 1965 to comply with welfare requirements as they were considered non-ambulatory. These residents have ad justed quite well to their
new quarters and appear to be very happy. Since inaugurated, the move
required by the State of California Department of Social Welfare, the
President and the Secretary of the Board appeared before their representatives and pointd out that many of the residents transferred to the
fifth floor could be supervised adequately and safely in other portions of
the building complex, relieving the Home of additional expense of n ursing care. The representatives of the Department of Social Welfare concurred and an effort is being made to house some of our cane patients
previously considered non-ambulatory in other sections of the Home.
We were also informed that the other floors of Adams Hall could be
considered for non-ambulatory people and that the Department would
authorize such with proper application. Such an application is now in
progress.
Beca use of a new hous ing development close by. it was necessary to
erect a 6' chain link fence on the southern boundary of the Home and
around our water s upply tanks, as we were experiencing problems of
trespassing and vandalism.
The roads around the p roperty were repaired and oiled at the beginning of the rainy season to prevent damage to the roadways and the
slopes.
The drilling of a success ful well in a water bearing strata below that
presently used, will supplement our present water supply. From the two
wells now in use, sufficient water for many years to come should result.
Due to a change of administrative personnel at Covina, it was necessary to send Brother Gail David, the Superintendent at Union City, to
Covina the end of December, to take over as Acting Superintendent until
a replacement for Superintendent could be found . During the interval of
Superintendent David's absence Brother Hugh Herring, Assistant Superintendent. was selected as Acting Superintendent. He successfully
performed in this capacity without any interruptions in the services
rendered by the Home.

PkOCEED INGS OP THE

Due to the salary demand s of the Registe red Nurses in the area,
which began after the end of our fiscal period, it was found necessa ry to
increase the salaries of our six Registe red Nurses . There was general
concurr ence that the salaries of the nurses were on the low side when
compar ed with the compen sation paid for similar professi onal services by
other institutions. This increase was made conditio nal based upon the
final settleme nt with the nurses in the area. The nurses' aides . maids, and
kitchen help also demand ed increases which were in line with the salaries
being paid in the local area and on this basis they were approve d. The
salary increase s may exceed $125,000 per year.
For a number of months the Board has been studyin g the impact of
M edicare upon the Home's operatio n. All but two of our guests at Union
City have enrolled under Medica re. The two not covered are below the
age of 65. At the August meeting of the Board, a contrac t for one year,
retroact ive to July I, 1966, was entered into with the Palo Alto Clinic on
a trial basis. This contrac t not only enlists the full aid and support of
the Clinic in medical and surgical problem s but also covers an area not
served by Medica re ref erred to as M edigap. The propose d contrac t does
not include some of the services previou sly received and an effort is being
made to adjust this condition. Change s may have to be made as the year
progres ses. All these matters are subject to the interpre tation by the
Federal Departm ent of Health. Educati on and Welfar e. Should some
of these conditio ns be conside red as not being within the legal limits of
Medica re, it may be necessa ry to work on a month to month basis until
things are clarified in Washin gton. We have been assured that all the
Clinic services will go on uninterr upted.
During the coming year there will be changes necessa ry in certain
equipm ent, particul arly in the kitchen and dining room, and the replacement of possibly a station wagon and truck.
The append ed Superin tendent 's report will give some idea of the
complexities of operatio ns with which he is charged .
COVINA

For the past several years we have been reportin g to you that we
were actively engaged in plans to relocate our children 's home. Such
plans, regardle ss of how economically approac hed, contem plate the expenditu re of a conside rable sum. While our children 's populat ion is
remaini ng rather constan t at present, we learn from other jurisditc ions
that due to the increase in social benefits, in a number of cases their
children 's home populat ion has decreas ed very substan tially and in' at
least one other G rand jurisdiction they are embarra ssed by just heiving
complet ed a lovely new modern facility and now and that their population is approac hing the vanishin g point. In addition , the mountin g costs
of land, building and child care have induced us to approac h this subject
with extreme care so as to not unduly burden the craft. For the present,

GRA ND LODGE OF CA LIFORN IA

97

therefor e, we are content ing ourselve s with giving our present bui~dings
much needed coat of paint, maintai ning everyth ing in good repair and
~ eping our eyes and ears open attempt ing to discern what the future
h~lds for us as regards the needs for Masoni c child care.
During the year it became necessa ry to make a change in the position
of Superin tendent of the Childre n's Home, and on _May l~t James C.
Blaine took over this most importa nt assignm ent. His selectio n was the
result of months of intervie wing and investig ations and he was the u~­
animous choice of your Board. He has a very complete backgro und m
social work, which was reporte d to you in detail in the summer issue of
the California Freema son. The Blaine family has been acce~ted most
raciousl y by all in the Covina Home and we feel fortuna te mdeed to
~ave these compet ent people in our Masoni c Home family.
Our brethre n are indeed interest ed in the welfa re of our young
charges which is very heart warming. We have i~ the past few years
received a conside rable number of very substan tial bequest s for our
scholars hip fund. Your Trustee s continu e to make scholars hip grants to
our Covina graduat es for their further educati on as required . We a re
most appreci ative of the well mea ning and thought ful generos ity of the
brethren in this regard. We would also like to suggest that bequest s to
the Covina Home be made to the general fund for other needs as required.
.
.
We respectf ully call your attentio n to the append ed Superm
tendent s
report which gives an excellen t idea of the many and varied activities
connect ed with the proper training and supervi sion of our young guests.
ADMINIS TRATION

The Grand Secreta ry and his staff have admirab ly progres sed in
their efforts to mechan ize and streaml ine the reports and statistic s of
the Masoni c Homes in order to make availabl e such data in a more
concise and more detailed form. Much progres s has been made and the
Secreta ry's office is to be complim ented on their efforts.
FINANC ES

Your Board of Trustee s have felt the continu ed effect of increased
costs of operatin g the two homes. As we approac h this new Masonic
year we have no reason to believe they will be reduced . In addi tion to
salary increase s heretofo re referred to, all other costs of operations have
had a tendenc y to rise, especial ly food costs. In spite of these facts y our
Board of Trustees remain optimis tic and for this next yea r we will be
able to operate without requesti ng an increase in the per capita tax and
have indicate d to the Commi ttee on Finance that a re ten tion of the $1.'iO
per capita be continu ed for the ensuing year.
The. reason for this optimism is threefol d.
I. The continu ed generos ity of our brethre n and friends of the

98

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRA ND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Masonic Homes of California in remembering the Homes in their wills.
We express our grateful thanks for this continued expression of confidence.
2. The addition of in excess of $900,000 to our Endowment Fund
by the members of California Lodges which is equivalent of not less tha n
20c per capita income.
3. The hig her interest earned at the present time on our investments
should likewise supplement income.
In closing this report we, as a Board of Trustees, continue to express
our appreciation for the generous gifts a nd bequests of money and property which through the years have encouraged the Board o f continue to
improve the high standard of care for the residents of the two Homes.
It is indeed a truly great privilege to serve the fraternity in this importa nt
effort.
Respectfully submitted,
L. HAROLD ANDERSON. President
JoHN F. PORTER, Vice President
D oNA LD G. CAMPBELL

On June 30, 1966, the hospital contained 107 patients, plus 28
patients in the Charles Albert Ada ms Hall, w hich is under the supervision of the hospital. A ll were considered permanent in the hospital.
except 5.
In compliance w ith State Welfare Department requirements, the
fifth floor of Adams Hall was opened for non-ambulator y residents. The
move was made on the third of August and included all those who
needed nursing care or required a cane.
The Palo Alto Medical C linic continues to render ex pert medical
care for our residents.
We are happy to state there has not been any change d uring the
year in our administrative personnel. During the time I was Acting
Superintenden t at Covina, Brother Hugh H erring, Assistant Superintendent. did an outstan ding job in taking over here in Union City.
Both Mrs. Dagger, our Matron, and Mrs. Farris, our Hospital Supervisor, were very cooperative during the past year and have fulfilled their
duties most efficiently.
It has been our pleasure during the past year to receive many distinguished Masons, their families and guests as visitors to the Home.
Our guest book s hows signatures of 3,991 visitors, which represented
il 2 Lodges in our jurisdiction and 25 Lodges of other jurisdictions as
well as 6 foreign countries. Many Lodges visited the Home, enjoyed
picnic lunches, and conferred various degrees in the Temple. W e would
like to express our thanks to the Lodges for their generous contributions
to our Christmas Fund. With these we were able to make it a very
Merry Christm~s for all our residents. Our thanks also to all the groups
and individuals for other contributions, including clothing, televisions,
radios. cookies and cakes. Also, for the many fine programs a nd movies
presented in our auditorium a nd a ll other gifts.
On August 21, 1965, we were pleased to have approximately 700
members of the Eastern Star for the annual visit and Jam & Jelly Day
of the East Bay Past Matrons Association. They also held their annual
reception at the Home for the Worthy Grand M atron. Our thanks
to all this group for the canned fruits and juices that were contributed.
On Wednesday, October 13, we had the honor of having approximately 1,450 Masons, the representatives of Grand Lodge, and their
wives visit the Home and enjoy a picnic lunch. T his is a day looked
forward to each year with much an ticipation, especia lly by all of the
residents.
Another of the outstanding days of the year was the annual meeting
of the Most Worshipful M yro n E. Smith, Grand Master, and the Board
of Trustees on Jan uary 8, 1966. In the evening a reception was given for
the Grand Master at which time he gave us a very inspirational talk.
After the talk the residents had an opportunity to greet him and the
Trustees.

ALFRED F. B RESLAUER
EDWARD J. BLICKPELDT
PmL N. MYERS

LAURENCE E . DAYTON
EU GENE
H OPP
EoGAR V. STEWART, J R.

s.

Ref erred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF SUPERINTE NDENT-MA SONIC HOME
AT UNION CITY (Decoto)
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Hom es of California:
It is my pleasure and privilege to submit my tenth Annual Report
on the operation of the M asonic Home for the Aged ending June 30 ,
1966.
The population as of July 1, 1965 was 136 men and 201 women,
including 17 married couples. We laid to rest 28 men, average a ge
83.25 years, and 35 women , average age 88.85 years.
On June 30, 1966, there were 310 residents consisting of 121 men a nd
186 women, including 17 married couples. The average age of our
residents is 82.43 years.
Age Groups
60-69
70-79
80-89
90-99
100- ( 1 is 100)
( 1 is 101 )

Men
5
30
74
15

W omen

'*

54
104

22
2

Total
9
84
178
37
2

310

99

100

IOI

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

Our residents, during the year, enjoyed rides around the countryside in our 12 passenger bus. Larger buses were chartered for trips
to the ball game and ice follies.
During the past year a well was drilled on the property which is
now working and giving approximately 175 gallons per minute. This
is from a lower water bearing strata of water and is to supplement our
other well.
We found it necessary to install a six foot chain link fence, topped
with two strands of barbed wire, along part of the southern boundary
and around our water supply tank. This was necessary because we
had experienced an increasing problem of trespassing and vandalism.
It was also necessary to have our roadways repaired prior to the
winter rains.
On behalf of the staff, I wish to express our appreciation to all the
residents for their fine spirit and cooperation during the year.
To all the employees, my personal thanks to each of you for your
cooperation and assistance in caring for our residents.
To each of the Trustees, my personal thanks for your counseling
and continued confidence. Above all. our thanks to the Masons of California and Hawaii whose contributions and support make this rewarding
work possible. It is a sincere privilege and pleasure to serve both the
Trustees and the Fraternity as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for
the Aged.
Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

with a minimum of insecurity and tension , and the same can be said for
the staff. The interest, dedication and support of the Board of Trustees
and the Fraternity have helped make this transition more readily acceptable on behalf of all those concerned.
Our children have been involved in many and varied supervised
activities. Week-end and residential camping at Big Bear and a t the
beach have been enjoyed. Special trips to cultural and fine arts exh ibits
in the: local community have been arranged, as well as participation in
Masonic affiliated organizations, such as DeMolay, Job's Daughters,
Rainbow Girls. Serving as hosts and hostesses to groups on V isitation
Sunday, developing skills in music, dancing , participating on athletic
teams for the boys and friend ly competition with other Homes , have also
proven to be extremely meaningful in the lives of our children.
For the most part, our Home Family has enjoyed good health. A few
minor accidents have taken place but we have not suffered any serious
illnesses. We have continued the yearly physical examinations which
have included eye and dental exams. As a result of these in- depth physi~
cals we have been able to supply eye glasses for some children and
orthodontia for others. We are extremely grateful for the dedicated staff
of Magan Clinic, who have cared for our health needs.
An Alumni Committee of eight couples has been contacted and is in
process of organizing an "Alumni Association." It has made plans to con~
tinue the Annual Alumni Picnic in Covina to be held October 23rd this
year, and the Committee is also helping to plan "District Al umni
Events.'' One such event will be a dinner held in San Francisco early in
October. We a re.grateful to these alumni for their interest and efforts.
The coming year will see several things taking place-a fresh coat
of paint on all our buildings, an increased participation of our children
in the planning aspect of the Home activities on the part of selected staff,
and an intensification of an in-service training program for all s taff. We
will renew our dedication to meet the needs of the children in our Home
Family.
Please accept my s incere thanks for the many acts of kindness and
consideration shown me since May I st. Special thanks to the Board of
Trustees and the Masons in California and Hawaii whose interests and
efforts make possible our M asonic Home for Children .

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT-COVINA HOME
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with pleasure that I submit my first Annual Report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children for the year ending June 30,
1966. The year's end showed a population of fifty-eight children in the
Home. Of these, thirty-four are boys and twenty-two are girls. In the
very near future our population will increase by three, two new boys
and one boy returned from leave of absence, making our Home Family
consist of sixty-one children.
Among the Charter O ak High School graduates in June, 1966,
Masonic Home contributed five---one young lady and four young men.
Of these five, the young lady is in business school as a result of a Masonic Homes Scholarship, one of the young men will be attending college
in September on another Homes Scholarship, one young man has enlisted in the armed services, the other two young men have secured employment and rejoined their families.
Our children seem to have accepted the change of administration

Respectfully submitted,
JAMES C. BLAIN E , Superintende nt

At 5:05 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9: 30 a .m. T uesday.

102

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

I NDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES
Individual contributions this year amounted to $904,437.59-up from
$846,895.00 a year ago - contributed by 125,272 brethren, averaging
$7.22 per contributor - up from $6.84 a year ago. Many brethren, of
course, contributed in amounts of $100 to $500 and one brother gave
$10,000.00 through Dimond Lodge No. 603. His name is brother Horace
O. Lanza, a charter member of Dimond Lodge. Brother Lanza deserves
our special thanks for this unusually large contribution.
The over-all average contribution per member in all Lodges combined
was $3.71 compared to $3.46 per member a year ago.

MORNING SESSION -TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11 , 1966
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 a.m. the Grand Master presiding.
This session was raised by Worshipful Delbert N. Wade, Master of
Mendocino Lodge No. 179. The invocation was delivered by the Grand
Chaplain. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, October 10, were read and approved.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
The M asonic Homes Endowment Board hereby s ubmits its Annual
Report for the fiscal year of July 1, 1965 through June 30, 1966.
INCOME FROM THE ENDOWMENT FUND
The in come from the Homes Endowment Fund this year was
$668,834.00 and that amount has been transferred to the operating expense account of our Masonic Homes. This is an increase of $69.441.00
above a year ago. If we did not have the Endowment Fund, that amount
of $668,834.00 would have had to have been raised by an additional
$2.75 in per capita tax.
BEQUESTS
Bequests in the amount of $203,335.00 were received into the Endowment Fund during the past year. In addition, $1.099.009.00 in bequests
were received by the Homes direct, from estates wherein the Endowment
Fund was not specifically mentioned in the Will. Thus a total of $1.302,344.00 was received from bequests during the fiscal year, hence the
importance of bequests.
The Endowment Board has consistently publicized the subject of
bequests, but has remained impartial as to whether the Endowment Fund
should be specified in the Will, or whether the bequest should be directed
to the Masonic Homes to be used at the discretion of the Board of Trustees. About 12 years ago this Board sent a letter and bequest folder to
several thousand attorneys, whether or not the attorneys were Masons.
In recent years we have concentrated our efforts upon getting bequest
material into the hands of attorneys w hom we know to be Masons. and
into the hands of individual M asons and their families.
During the past few years, this Board has furnished to the Lodges,
for sending to members. more than 700.000 folders dealing solely with
the subject of bequests. During the past year the Lodges have ordered
from this Board 113.000 of the current bequest folder, entitled "Masonic
Foot Prints," for sending to members. In addition, during the past three
years, the Chairman has sent five separate mailings of bequest material
to a list of I 700 attorneys whom we know to be Masons. All Lodges are
urged to continue to publicize to their members, the subject of bequests.

103

HONOR ROLL STATUS
Honor Roll status of $2 average per member was attained by 673
Lodges this year which is 94.5% of all Lodges. However, the $2 Honor
Roll has become simply a minimum achievement - a stepping-stone to
greater heights of accomplishments.
$3 OR MORE AVERAGE PER MEMBER
A much higher accomplishment is for the Lodge to be in the special
listing of Lodges which average $3 or more per member, listed according
to average. and to be as high as possible on that list. S uch Lodges deserve
our special thanks and congratulations. This year 486 Lodges attained
this special honor. They are as follows:

No.

Lodge

Average
amount
per member

603 Dimond .......~ ............... ..... $42.33
319 Hollenbeck ---·-·----······· ..··· 14.22
800 Rio Hondo-------···---··--·-···-- 13.87
797 T ila Pass ······-------·---·---..... 13.53
U.D. Maccabee ........................ 11.14
566 J ames A. Garfield.. ......... 10.52
781 Rolling Hills ......_....... ...... 9.23
378 Mizpah .............................. 9.12
780 Riviera .............. ......... ..... 8.94
813 Old West .......................... 8.90
307 Santa Monica ....... _.......... 7.88
812 Triad ................................ 7.86
740 Opportunity .................... 7.81
786 Rio L inda -----·········--·-·----- 7.80
727 Verdugo Hills ................ 7.60
779 Five Points ...................... 7.58
790 Granada Hills ................ 7.55
278 Southern California...... 7.53
805 Camellia .......................... 7.16
814 Plaza De Los Angeles.... 7.10
95 Henry Clay ...................... 7.06
765 Dana R. Weller................ 7.05
464 Alta Vista ........................ 6.89
595 Alexander Graham Bell 6 82
710 Anaca~a .......................... 6:77
327 Long each -··-----------.... 6.74
513 Cahuenga ···-···········........ 6.67

No.

393
580
766
662
56
733
767
737
599
820
699
760
267
194
548
623
540
785
455
698
481
373
200
542
685
273
663

Lodge

Average
amount
per member

Balder .............................. 6.66
Santa Maria-········--.. ······· 6.64
James H. Kew.... ............ 6.50
Henry Knox.................... 6.49
Volcano ............................ 6.41
Golden Empire .............. 6.37
Wm. Rhodes Hervey...... 6.30
Hillsborough ........-......... 6.29
Carmelita ··········---------·---· 6.26
Mar Vis ta .......... .............. 6 24
Bixby Knolls ............. -... 6:23
Lakes ide .......................... 6.21
Ga lt ................... ............. _ 6.19
Mountain View .............. 6.13
Triangle .......................... 6.08
Menorah .......................... 6.05
Queen Beach .................. 6.02
Paramount ................-..... 6.00
Golden West .................. 5.98
Wm. D. Stephens............ 5.89
Mt. Davidson .................. 5.86
West Los Angeles.......... 5.82
Truckee--·-···----···-·--··---.... 5.79
North Hollywood .......... 5. 79
San Marino...................... 5.78
Anchor ............................ 5.74
Ojai .................................. 5. 73

104

Average
amount
No.
Lodge
per member
768 Zenith .............................. 5.73
600 Lynwood-----------·-············· 5.57
529 Loyalty -······-··----·············· 5.51
300 Redlands .... ......... ..... ........ 5.46
755 Golden Bowl .......... ........ 5.41
761 Josiah W. Roller............ 5.38
578 Progressive ···---······-······· 5.37
702 Rosemead ····-·--···-----··--···· 5.35
191 Marin---············-··---····--····· 5.34
415 Silver Trowel ······-·--·--·-- 5.33
661 Malta ............... ................ 5.32
355 Hollywood ...................... 5.31
596 Guardian.......................... 5.31
642 La Cumbre ...................... 5.30
776 East Whittier .................. 5.27
778 La Mirada ...................... 5.27
166 Excelsior .......................... 5.26
322 Alhambra ........................ 5.24
694 San Antonio .................... 5.24
445 Wilshire ·········-------·········· 5.22
745 Peninsula ........................ 5.21
412 Calexico .......................... 5.16
5:38 Ascot ···----·················· ······· 5.14
290 East Gate ........... ···--······· 5.13
376 Francis Drake ................ 5.13
264 Hesperian ·······---·············· 5.12
637 Palisades .......................... 5.12
759 El Rancho···-···--··-············ 5.12
242 Magnolia ........................ 5.10
729 Centennial ·······--·····-······· 5.08
622 Atwater ............................ 5.07
484 Albert Pike ······---··········· 5.06
656 Citrol ................................ 5.06
428 San Dimas ······----·····-······ 5.03
20 Washington .................... 5.00
467 Culver City .................... 4.98
492 Garvanza ·······---···--··-······ 4.94
202 Pentalpha ···-·-······-·······-··· 4.92
618 Southland ........................ 4.91
707 Lake Tahoe .................... 4.91
739 La Canada ................... ... 4.90
452 San Pasqual .................... 4.89
612 Temple City ···············-·-·· 4.87
697 Saint Elmo ...................... 4.86
808 Scepter ..................... ....... 4.86
796 Golden Valley ................ 4.85
394 University ······-··-····----···· 4.84
470 Lincoln ·····---··-·······-----····· 4.84
615 Hemet ................ ............ 4.83
621 The Garde ns .................. 4.83
521 Piedmont ·--····-····--··-·--··-· 4.82
450 Van Nuys ........................ 4.81
789 Oak Plains ...................... 4.30
713 Castro Valley--····--·········· 4.78
3 Tehama .......................... . 4. 76
414 Arlington ........................ 4.76
326 Needles ............................ 4.73
1 California ·····-·········-······-· 4.68

Average

Average

No.
26
645
422

743
377
42
305
773
774
476
21
528
523
320
515
764
483
120
546
7·06
352
198
589
616
379
539
220
448
215
543
392
715
810
811
629
683
437
730
402
660

2

731
330
358
106
203
611
628
688
272

482

477
741
12

222
228

506
643

amount

Lodge

105

GR ANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PHO CEEDINGS OP THE

per member
El Dorado -··---···-··--·········· 4.68
A. F. E. Irwin .................. 4.67
Eagle Rock ·---······-·--········ 4.66
Oakwood ...................... .. 4.66
Artesia···············-····-·-······· 4.65
Los Angeles ................... . 4.64
Azusa --·········--······----------··· 4.61
T'
eJon ............................... . 4.61
Waikiki --··············-····------· 4.61
Coachella
....................... . 4.58
H awanan
..
...................... .. 4.57
Beverly Hills ................. . 4.56
Bellflower ..................... . 4.55
South Gate·----·--·············· 4.54
Vermont Square ........... . 4.54
Heritage ······---------··-······· 4.54
Bell .................................... 4.53
Fidelity ........................... . 4.51
San Gabriel ................... . 4.51
Hunters Point Naval. .. 4.51
Sunset ............................. . 4.50
Wilmington .................... 4,49
Kauai ............................... . 4.49
R. E. Dolley ...... .......... .... . 4.49
Fillmore ........................ .. 4.48
Belvedere ....................... . 4.48
Downey ........................... . 4.47
Mount Diablo ··-···--·---··--·· 4.46
Oak Grove ----·····---------·-·· 4.44
Signal -········-····--·-----····---· 4.44
West Lake --·-··---·-------···-· 4.43
Magnolia Park-·-····-·------· 4.43
Victoria Palms ···----------- 4.42
Woodland Hills -·····-----··· 4.42
Fairview ··-·--------···----------- 4.41
Red wood Empire ·------··· 4.41
Lancast er ··---········--·--··--·· 4.38
Polaris .............................. 4.38
Brawley ················-····-···· 4.37
Baldwin Park ................ 4.37
Western Star ············--·-·· 4.35
Two Rivers ..................... . 4.34
Kilauea ............................ 4.33
Golden State ................. . 4.32
Arcata ............................. . 4.31
Confidence ..................... . 4.31
Canoga ··---------··-···----····--· 4.31
Truth ·······-----·--···----···--····· 4.31
Oildale ······--·---·--------·····-· 4.31
Pasadena ....................... . 4.30
Clarence F. Smith ..... . __ 4.30
T emblor ........................ .. 4.29
Tyre
.. ....... .. ... 4..29
Yount .... .... .............. ....... 4.28
Roseville ---··········--··-·--··--· 4.28
Athens ·--······-···········--------- 4.28
Mount Olive .................. 4.28
Alta Loma ·-·················-·· 4.27

Average

amount

No.
716
738
127
594
457
647
771
40
819
504·
357
104
639
650
763
592
547
587
695
390
815

Lodge

per member
Belmont Shore .............. 4.27
Arvin ······----·····-------·--······· 4.27
Hermann ·-·-··---------·----·--··· 4.26
Service ----···-------------------·· 4.26
Ramona ··-----···--·-·---·--------- 4.25
Hawthorne ---------------------· 4.25
Mission Bay -------··---···-·-·· 4.25
Sacramento .................... 4.24
Frank S. Land................ 4.23
Seaside ............................ 4.22
Buena Park ------·-----··--·--- 4.21
Lexington -----------·········--·· 4.20
Composite····--···--····-········ 4.19
La Brea --···---·····-····----······ 4.18
Arabic .............................. 4.18
Tujunga .......................... 4.17
Arcadia .......... .................. 4.16
Valley Forge .................. 4.16
Men dell ............................ 4.16
Imperial .......................... 4.15
Mount Baldy .................. 4.15
U.D. Boron ·-·-·----·-·-·-···-··--··-···· 4.15
462 Paul Revere ··----··--··----···· 4.14
572 James Madison ·-------·-···· 4.13
43 Hiram ·-···---···-·--···-----------· 4.12
328 Redondo .......................... 4.12
287 Winnedumah .................. 4.11
795 American River ............ 4.11
444 Carpinteria -----··········----·-- 4.10
458 Henry S. Orme................ 4.10
574 S. W. Hackett.................. 4.10
742 Morningside. Park
4.10
641 James A. Foshay............ 4.09
144 Oriental .......................... 4.08
168 Redwood City ··----··--·----· 4.08
224 Bakersfield ···---·------·-----··· 4.08
293 Orange Grove ···---···---···· 4.08
369 Ocean Park ·······---· -------·· 4.08
636 John Marshall................ 4.08
655 Monte Vista .................... 4.08
35 San Diego ........................ 4.05
522 Sunrise ............................ 4.05
335 West Gate ----········-··········· 4.04
403 Yerba Buena .................. 4.04
409 Honolulu .......................... 4.04
424 Exeter .............................. 4.04
736 L emon Grove ·············-·- 4.03
324 Corona .............................. 4.02
451 Mon tebello ...................... 4.02
372 Gardena ·-·······-··-·······--···· 4.01
593 All States ····--··········-······· 4.01
762 Coastside ............... ........ 4.01
816 Wm. B. Ogden.................. 4.01
10 San Jose ....................... ... 4.00
367 South Pasadena .............. 4.00
696 Crossroads .................... .. 3.99
219 Speranza Italiana .......... 3.98
417 Clovis -·---···---·--·--·-···-······· 3,98

amount

No.
563
684
89
537
728
313
436
329
475
670
590
602
262
306
502
217
375
503
724
314
384
630
559
101
344

586
61
473
614
769
577
544
381
658
87
535
405
243
387
631
609
666
703
758
801
560
709
150
400
143
368
744
333
16
396
711
549
565

Lodge

per member
South Park ··---------------·--·· 3.98
Trona ·-·-·······················-···· 3.97
Rose's Bar ........................ 3.96
Utopia .............................. 3.96
Lakewood··----------··--·-----·· 3.96
Te hachapi ----·······-----------·· 3.95
Claremont ........................ 3.95
Vallee de France............ 3.94
America ......... ................. 3.94
Greenleaf ........................ 3.94
Con1pass .......................... 3.93
Melrose ············--···--·---···-· 3.93
Lompoc ............................ 3.92
Ashlar --·······-··--····----··--·--- 3.92
Harbor.............................. 3.92
Monterey ····----····-·········-· 3.90
Richmond ........................ 3.90
Point ................................ 3.90
S a n Ramon Valley........ 3.90
Temescal ······················---- 3.89
El Ce ntro ........................ 3.89
Ingleside .......................... 3.89
Craftsmen ........................ 3.88
Clay .................................. 3.87
Starr King ...................... 3.87
Garden Grove ................ 3.87
Live Oak··--·····-····-----·------ 3.86
Blythe .............................. 3.85
Larchmont ····----··---····----· 3.85
Palmdale ........................ 3.85
Sunnyside ······-······-----·----- 3.84
Glendale .......................... 3.83
Oceanside ........................ 3.82
Livingston ···-------······--···· 3.82
Naval ·-----·------····--·-·---------· 3 .81
Alexa nder Hamilton .... 3.81
Moneta --·-----·--·· -··-------···-- 3.80
Eucalyptus ·--···----···--······· 3.79
Coalinga ----·--···----------··--·· 3. 79
Benevolence ---------·---·---· 3.79
Provident -------·---------------· 3.78
Reseda .............................. 3.78
Wes tchester ··········------··-- 3.78
West Covina·······-------·----· 3.78
Koolau ............................ 3.78

P lymouth ············-··--·-----Lorenzo ···········-··-····------Molino ..............................
Burlingame ....................
Franklin ..........................
Unity ................................
San Leandro ···--··-··-····
Alta ..................................
Eureka ............................
Apollo ··········--···------··-······
Rim of The W orld..........
Justice ..............................
West Adams····-·--·---········

3.77
3. 77
3. 76
3. 76
3 .75
3.75
3.75
3.74

3.73
3.73

3.73
3.72
3.72

106

No.
254
362
441
581
382
719
117
644
304
461
399
480
732
701
794
407
651
237
648
777
50
181
221
635
678
354
397
673
792
309
356
509
334
809
435
32
756
351
371
486
81
246
132
299
192
584
726
604
128
770
757
241
317
361
18
619
346
527

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Reading ------------··-----··-··--·· 3.71
3.71
§~;~~trd~·-·:::::::::::::::::::::::: 3.71
Security ···-·····-----·····--····· 3.71
Highland Park ----·--···-··· 3.70
Es tero -··-··----···---· .... ........ . 3.70
Concord ·----·-·--·------········· 3.69
Lomita .............................. 3.69
Reedley ··-------··········-········ 3.68
Argonaut ........................ 3.68
Fraternity ..................... . 3.67
Fellowship ..................... . 3.67
San Juan .......................... 3.67
Santa Ynez Valley ....... . 3.66
Mt. Wilson ...................... 3.66
La Mesa ......................... . 3.64
Menlo Park .................... 3.64
Guadalupe ..................... . 3.63
Damascus ........................ 3.63
Pinnacle ......................... . 3.63
Forbestown ................... . 3.61
Russian River ................ 3.61
Inyo ................................. . 3.61
Rivers ide ........................ 3.61
Altadena .......................... 3.61
Presidio ......................... . 3.60
Rising Light --················ 3.58
Far West ....................... . 3.58
Millbrae ......................... . 3.58
Delano ............................ .. 3.57
Mill Valley ..................... . 3.57
Benjamin Franklin ..... . 3.57
Covina ............................. . 3.56
Los Alamitos .................. 3.56
Fairmount ...................... 3.55
Gold Hill ......................... . 3.54
Clayton Valley ............. . 3.54
Palestine .......................... 3.53
le Progres de l'Oceanie .. 3.53
Caledonia ....................... . 3.53
Yolo ................................. . 3.52
Pomona ··-·······--················ 3.52
Sincerity .......................... 3.51
Liberty ........................... . 3.51
Santa Barbara ·--·····----···· 3.50
Hard.ing --·-·-·····-·-··-·········-· 3.50
Yucaipa ·······-·-·-··-···········-· 3.50
Jubilee ............................. . 3.49
Visalia ............................. . 3.48
Lake Chabot .................. 3.48
Channel ............................ 3.47
Santa Ana ........................ 3.46
Fallbrook -···············-··---- 3.46
Fort Bragg .................... .. 3.46
Mountain Shade ······--··-- 3.45
Neptune .......................... 3.45
Palo Alto .......................... 3.44
Covenant -··········-··········-- 3.44

Average
amount
Lodge
No.
per member
576 El Cajon Valley.............. 3.44
806 Simi Valley .................... 3.44
588 El Sereno ·--····················· 3.43
598 Pearl Harbor ···-········--··· 3.43
13 Neva da ............................ 3.42
208 R io Vista···-··--····--···-----···· 3.42
520 Ionic .................................. 3.42
718 San Lorenzo Valley........ 3.42
57 Santa Rosa ...................... 3.41
214 San Buenaventura ........ 3.41
112 Summit ............................ 3.40
605 Glassell Park .................. 3.40
626 Chula Vista ···-···---·········· 3.40
668 San Gorgonio .................. 3.40
692 Travelers ........................ 3.39
234 Hope ···--------······---··········--· 3.38
33 Ophir ................................ 3.37
339 Fullerton .......................... 3.37
712 Los Altos ........................ 3.37
722 George E. Tutt................ 3.37
380 Huntington Beach ........ 3.36
667 Meridian .......................... 3.36
725 Saint John's .................... 3.36
533 Azure --·····-··-····---·--··········· 3.35
649 Florence .......................... 3.35
212 South Sa n Francisco...... 3.34
226 San Mateo ...................... 3.34
277 Selma .............................. 3.34
627 Lamanda Park .............. 3.34
446 La Puente ·-·-····-···········-·- 3.33
471 De lta ................................ 3.33
552 Semper Virens ................ 3.33
607 Sojourner ........................ 3.33
652 Crescenta Valley .......... 3.33
677 Liberal Arts .................... 3.33
721 Home ·····-------·······--··········· 3.33
784 Leland Stanford ............ 3.33
799 Clairemont Mesa .......... 3.33
421 Inglewood ---·--···-·····---····· 3.32
430 Mccloud ··--··-··················- 3.32
654 Jordan -···-········-·········-----·· 3.32
807 Conejo Valley ................ 3.32
479 Golden Rule ------···········--· 3.31
512 Palms................................ 3.31
659 La H abra ···---····-············· 3.31
5 Denecia ............................ 3.30
389 Palos Verdes ·-------·········- 3.30
64 Natoma ............................ 3.29
420 Kerman ............................ 3.29
748 H ighland -------·--················ 3.29
188 Oakland ··-----·-···--·····-···-·· 3.28
793 Maya -·-------....................... 3.28
558 Point Firmin ·-·--······-····· 3.27
209 K ing David's .................. 3.26
571 Francis K. Shattuck...... 3.26
285 San Miguel -···-··--···-········· 3.25
303 Porterville ...................... 3.25
693 Palm Springs ···-··---········· 3.25

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.
30
80
425
669
14
123
746
129
519
131
167
186
259
147
343
347
472
51
345
370
526
211
74.9
295
315
507
423
690
469
570
582
406
551
585
19
169
337
633
708
145
791
193
653

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Golden Gate .................... 3.24
Ione .................................. 3.24
Holtv ille ··········--·······-······ 3.24
John P. Jarman.............. 3.24
Temple ............................ 3.23
Sotoyome ........................ 3.22
Soquel ··-··············------·-····· 3.22
Nicolaus .......................... 3.:.U
Euclid .......... ·---------··-···--· 3.21
Woodbridge .................... 3.20
Alameda .......................... 3.20
Evening Star --·-····--·--····· 3.20
Evergreen ·····-·-·····-·······-·· 3.19
Eel Ri ver ·······-···---·-.. ·-···· 3.18
San Fernando ................ 3.18
McKinley ........................ 3.18
Maui.................................. 3.18
Illinoistown .................... 3.17
Brentwood ····-·-·-·------······ 3.17
Amity-Sea l Rock .......... 3.17
Bay City ············-----··-······ 3.17
San Benito ...................... 3.16
Merced ··············-·····--······ 3.16
Mt. Jackson .................... 3.15
Norwalk .......................... 3.15
El Segundo ...................... 3.15
York .................................. 3.14
San Carlos ...................... 3.14
Yorba L inda.................... 3.13
Military Service ............ 3.13
Rialto ................................ 3.13
Burbank ·········-·-··------······ 3.12
Lakeshore ..L................... 3.12
Manchester···-·-··-····---······ 3.12
San J oaquin··· -···-·-······-··· 3.11
Mission ···············-···--······· 3.11
ca:quin~z ··············-········· 3,11
Poinsettia ........................ 3.11
SE'.afar~ng ············-····-·-···· 3.11
V1truv1ous ...................... 3_10
Gen. Henry H. Arnold.. 3.10
F erndale ···················---··-· 3.09
Fontana ··-············-------······ 3.09

No.
752
787
03
207
338
714
802
103
184
297
336
555
682
173
431
70
395
408
568
634
178
433
705
723
772
68
139
216
265
374
508
545
613
225
410
447
525
783
180
416
497
541

107

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Lu ther Burbank ............ 3.09
Westminst er.................... 3.09
St. Helena ...................... 3.08
Anaheim .......................... 3.08
San Jacinto...................... 3.08
Blue Lakes ...................... 3.08
Yucca Valley .................. 3.08
Oroville ············----·---·------· 3.07
Sierra Valley .................. 3.07
Dunsmuir ···-·················-·· 3.07
Fruitvale .......................... 3.07
White Pine ...................... 3.06
Barstow ............................ 3.06
Elk Grove ........................ 3.05
Alpha ................................ 3.05
E nterprise........................ 3.04
Turlock ............................ 3.04
Sierra Ma dre .................. 3.04
Park Boulevard ............ 3.04
Victorville ··············-·--···· 3.04
Phoenix ............................ 3.03
Hammonton ··········-··--·--·- 3.03
El Cerrito ........................ 3.03
Acalanes ·········-··-····----····· 3.03
Avenal.............................. 3.03
Morning Star .................. 3.02
Crockett .......................... 3.02
Doric ................................ 3.02
Orland ··-··········-··········-·-·· 3.02
J ewel ···-··--···········--·········· 3.02
J oppa ................................ 3.02
Veritas-Jonathan .......... 3.02
Three Pillars ····-----····-···· 3.02
Brooklyn .......................... 3.01
Charter Rock ·········---······ 3.01
T orrance .......................... 3.0 1
George Washington ______ 3.01
Mojave ............................ 3.01
Petaluma ············--·········· 3.00
L indsay ............................ 3.00
Fremont .......................... 3.00
Henry Morse Stephens.. 3.00

SPECIAL HON OR DISTRICTS

All Lodges in the following Districts averaged $5 or more per member:
District
Inspector
594 F red F. Elliott

All Lodges in the following Dis tricts averaged $4 or more per member:
District
Inspector
378 J ean F. Aeschlimann
430 J . Clifton Carpenter
532 Lawrence C. Lamb
538 Mark E. Schrock
540 Arnold G. Robertson
542 Frank L. Sutliff

District
Inspector
548 George W. Perkins
552 Burton Meyer, Jr.
556 Alfr ed J . Navi n
572 Thomas J. McKimson
588 Robert E. Crist
596 Claudis Thos. Shirley

108

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

All Lodges in the following Districts averaged $3 or more per member:

No.

District
Inspector
218 Daniel M. Cameron
219 A. Boyd Collier
226 Taubner G. Hamma
301 Alexander Duncan
307 Joseph W. Wright
320 Hillard M. Reeves
334 Charles L. Foster
336 Thomas W. S. Wu
338 Robert M. Montgomery
342 Carlton H. Rothblum
546 Jules Des Forges
364 John Burszan, Jr.
365 E. Ross Baylis
368 John F. Roberts
372 William H. Reed
382 William E. Foster
384 Charles H. McAllister
431 William W. Shugart
500 Wilfred W. Partridge
504 James E. Bacon
508 Ray H. Paine
516 William W. Dickson
518 Jack R. Vickers
520 Donald Maltby
522 Ray L. Peterson
524 Frank W. Raddatz
526 George E. Harrison
528 Charles F. Chapman

61
639
600
523

District
Inspector
530 T. Wm. Heidner
544 Roy T. Kiele
546 Jules DesForges
554 Arthur Linsk
558 Lloyd V. Smith
560 Fred E. Clark
562 Robert A. Simon
566 Erwin H. Gebhardt
568 Irwin Shulkin
570 Elvin C. Drake
574 Robert W. Doan
576 William A. Fishback
580 Edward A. Weirick
582 William Robusch
590 Alfred A. Dowers
592 J ames D. Kelso
601 Verdon E. Hixson
605 Kenneth Dowell
607 Rewell E. Carlton
612 J ames H. Weller
614 Ted R. Siems
618 Wayne C. Bates
622 John H. Ferguson
626 Floyd 0. Mason
628 Riley L. Blurton
634 Kenneth B. Conklin

Lodge

Amount

638

Lodge

Loyalty ......................... .
Mount Olive ................
Tehama ....................... .
Service ........................ ..
Bell .............................. ..
Greenleaf .................. ..
Cahuenga .................... ..
Sacramento ..................
Reseda ......................... .
Yerba Buena .............. ..
Anchor ......................... .
Monte Vista ..................
Redondo ....................... .
Alhambra .................. ..
Risini Light ........._.... .

Amount

ENDOWMENT BOARD PERSONNEL

646

No.
529
506
3
594
483
670
513
40
666
403
273
655
328
322
397

Lodge

PRINTED ITEMS FOR PUBLICITY

LoDGES WITH THE LARGEST AMOUNTS OF CONTRIBUTIONS

Dimond ........................$10,878.00
Hollenbeck .................. 9,344.28
Menorah........................ 7,485.38
Hollywood.................... 6,145.11
North Hollywood........ 5.804.75
Van Nuys ...................... 5,633.89
Los Angeles .................. 5,129.98
Guardian ...................... 5,096.83
West Gate --·--·---------····· 4,625.77
Ionic .............................. 4.310.38
Downey ........................ 4,300. 72
Washington .................. 4,261.65
Naval ............................ 4,222.50
Long Beach .................. 4,222.02
San DieiO .................... 4,075.42

No.

544 Glendale ...................... 3,019.99
393 Balder ........................... . 3,015.50
224 Bakersfield ................. . 3,012.06
378 Mizpah .......................... 3,000.52

This year the Lodges ordered 1,771.818 printed items from the
Endowment Board for sending to members to publicize the Ho mes and
the Endowment and to promote greater contributions from the brethren.
This number includes 725,195 of the new two-color folders re contributions; 113,164 folders promoting bequests; 319,629 new two-color cards
and leaflets; 222,179 copies of the Grand Master's Proclamation concerning Endowment Month, with coupon attached; 212 ,413 combination
"dues and contribution" envelopes; and 179,238 Contribution Re minder
envelopes. Most of the Endowment Board budget is used in the printing
and distribution of the printed items.

Lorenza H. Shaw
Raymond C. Reeder
We give special recognition and thanks to the above Inspectors because when all Lodges in a District have an unusually high record for
the Endowment we have reason to believe that the Inspector of that
District has been especially enthusiastic and influential concerning the
Homes Endowment program of his Lodges. However, many other Inspectors may have been equally enthusiastic about the Endowment program as the above Inspectors but were kept off of the special list by one
Lodge. Those Inspectors also deserve our special thanks and recognition.

No.
603
319
623
355
542
450
42
596
335
520
220
20
87
327
35

Lodge
Amount
Live Oak ...................... 3,176.00
Composite .................... 3,153.51
Lynwood ...................... 3,135.25
Bellflower .................... 3,054.90

109

Amount
4,048.37
3,883.25
3,866.25
3.794.95
3,554.36
3,541.99
3,527.50
3,425.25
3,401.26
3,391.50
3,385.59
3,37 1.73
3,244.47
3,233.65
3,196.81

A year ago four Board Members resigned for health, business or personal reasons and were replaced as follows: M. Richard Andrews. Santa
Barbara. was appointed to replace Ralph C. Hine; John L. Taylor,
Santa Ana, was appointed to replace W .W. Reyburn; Robert L. Wing
was appointed to replace C. Raymond Winterhalder in the San Jose
area; and Robert D. Lintner, San Francisco, was appointed to replace
William M. Connor.
For the coming year the following Board Members whose term expires
in October, 1966, have requested that they not be re-appointed: John
L. Taylor, after serving for one year; George Q. Evans, after serving
for two years; Charles F. Minetti. after serving for 6 years; and Kermit
A. Jacobson, after serving for 12 years. the past nine years of which he
has been a devoted and efficient Vice Chairman of the Boa rd and has
been tremendously cooperative a nd helpful to the Chairman in particular
and to the Board and Masonry in general.
In addition to the above Members of the Board, Chairman John M .
Gordon announced a year ago his decision to retire from the Chairmanship after 1966. He has been a Member of the Board for 16 years and
Chairman for the past 9 years. He has now resigned as a Member of
the Board effective October 14, 1966.
During the past nine years, the position of Chairman has become
virtually a full-time job for nine or ten months a year, without compensation and without paid secretarial help. If it had not been for the constant and devoted assistance of his wife, Margaret. it would have been
necessary to spend a considerable amount of the Endowment Board
budget for secretarial service. It has been a " labor of love" for the
Chairman and his devoted wife.

I I0

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN CONCLUSION

MEMORIALS

It is obviously impossible to give due and adequate credit and thanks
to all who have participated in the Homes Endowment Program during
the past yea r. They are legion - the Grand Lodge Officers and Past
Grand Masters; the Grand Lodge Committeemen; Grand Secretary and
his staff; the Grand Lecturer and his Assistant Grand Lecturers; the
Inspectors; Masters and Wardens; Lodge Secretaries and Endowment
committeemen of the Lodges; and last but certainly not least, the more
than 125.000 brethren and their families who contributed more than
$900.000.00 in contributions. and those who ha ve passed on to their
reward but who left Masonic Foot-Prints in the form of a bequest to
our Masonic Homes.
To all who participated by contributing time, effort, and/or cash
contributions, we extend our heartfelt thanks and appreciation, and pray
that their Masonic Foot-Prints may be firmly imprinted in the sands of
time.
Respectfully submitted,
THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
JoHN M. GORDON, Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, V ice Chairman
KENT 0 . SEYMOUR, Vice Chairman
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
EowARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M., Secretary

Year
Amount
1958 ····--····························---------- $ 3,627 .75
1959 ············································
3,977.90
1960 ............................................
6,610.60
l 96I ............................................ 10.980.50
1962 ............................................ l 0.388.46
1963 ............................................ l 3,I 44.00
1964 ............................................ 13,266.69
1965 ............................................ 13,193.00
1966 ............................................ 36,067.00

BOARD MEMBERS

1966

1967
M. EDWARD ALLRED

1968
M. RICHARD ANDREWS

GEORGE E. BERRESFORD
JoHN M. GORDON
ROBERT D. LINTNER
FRANK R. PORAT H
K ENT 0. SEYMOUR
JAMES K. WILSO N

GEORGE P. CALDERWOOD
GLEN GLADSON
GEORGE
POLOYN!S
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH
N ORMAN
SHAW
EVERETT S. Toon

Referred to Committee on Finance.

Year
Amount
1958 .......................................... $421,633.62
1959 .......................................... 502,120.43
1960 .......................................... 551 ,150.34
1961 .......................................... 645.453.76
1962 .......................................... 696.787.15
1963 .......................................... 741,241.47
1964 .......................................... 783,339.94
1965 .......................................... 846,895.50
1966 .......................................... 904,438.59
GIFTS FROM ALL SOURCES

TERMS EXPIRING
GEORGE BECKER
GEORGE Q. EVANS
WILLIAM GEHA
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
CHARLES F. MINETTI
JOHN L. TAYLOR
ROBERT L. WING

CONTRIBUTION S THROUGH LODGES

c.

w.

Year
Amount
1958 ........................................ $ 589,730.78
945.762.32
I 959 ········································
1960 ........................................
952,127.49
1961 ....................................... . 1,293,941.59
1962 ....................................... . 1,051.007.96
1963 ···-------............................ .. 1,024.140.77
908,580.40
I964 ······-·············----······-···--····
1965 ·······--···············--·····--·····-- 1,318.574.00
1966 ........................................ 1.151,628.00

111

I 12

ENDOWHENl' F1JND

INDIVIO Ul\L PARTICI PATION

Year
1958

~~~

J~ 1, 1965 - June 30, 1?66

No. of Membe rs
81.686
············
•·····································

· 93.425
::::::::::::::::::::·····························
;
······························ I 09.220
1961
·················································· I 09,733
1962
196 ·················································· 113,346
3
196 ·························· ························ 116.339
196~ ·················································· 118, l 96
1966 ·················································· 123,854
·················································· 125,272

('l'he lodge de11gnat1 on indicates connectio n by
1.Dtereat but not necessar ily by 111C111bersbip)
GIFTS AND DO.NATIONS

(Oakland. lodge No. 188)
( Ricbmocld lodge !lo. 375 )
Ernest Berger
(Lincoln lodge !lo. 470)
Roy P. Bre1tate1 n
(Berkeley Lodge !lo . 363)
Al.tred F.dvin Brewen
Anlla c • Brook a
(Yerba &J.ena Lodge No. 4o3)
stephen R, Coffee
Jeanette E. Daley
>(yrtle Gainer
Hane R. Groth
(Benicia Lodge .lfo, 5)
Lester M. Hansen
George H. Hauerken
IDuise S. Hill
Sara Miab
Oleta C. Neumarlte l
Bessie M. North
'!helm& Olsen
Bernard D. Phillips
(Oriental Lodge No. 144)
Charles R. Puckhabe r
(Ar11.ngton Lodge No. 414)
Karl Ratzer
(Apollo Lodge !lo. 396)
Jaioes Jacob Reams
(Golden Valley Lodge No. 796)
Fred Run.yon
(Southern CalU'orni a Lod.Be No. 278)
Bertha Sheivood.
(La Brea Lodge No. 650)
Virgil K. Shimer
(Silvcrad o Lodge No. 387)
Haller R. &nith
(Presidio Lodge lio. 354)
Al.bert J, Str ei
(Yount Lodge No. 12)
Harold M. Svaney
(Sacramen to Lodge No. 4o)
Orville c. Sweeney
(East Ge.te Lodge No. 290)
Henry A. Vlrich
Irene Marie D.iBoia Vlier
WilliBID Von Tobel
Astrid. !:. Wallace
(South Gate Lodge Ko, 320)
John A. Ward
(La Culubre Lodge No. 642)
Berman B. Williams

ES'1'A1'ES : Bans B. Bers

HONOR ROLL LODGES

Year
No. of Lodges
1958
·····-----····--···········--·---···· ······-············ 365
1959
························································ 453
1960 ..................................................................... 502
1961
···················-·······--··········-············ 573
1962
···············-·········-·······--··--·--··-·- 616
1963
······················--·············----·····--········ 641
1961 ·-·····-···················
637
--·-············---·-··
1965 ........................................................................ 652
1966
························································ 673
$3 OR MORE AVERAG E

Year

No. of Lodges
······· ·········-··· ·················· 36
·············
1958
1959
·························-····························-· 79
1960
··········-············································· 118
················ ···························· 18 ..."I
············
1961
1962
1963 ·······················································• 269
········-······-····························-··········· 346
1964 ························· ························
395
1965 ···········
········-······-········-····-········ ······· 454
1966
························································ 186

113

GRAND LOOGE OP CAl.ll'OR NJI\

PFIOCI!ED INGS OP THE

MISC :

Assoc. Charities Doployees

A. I. D. Contribut ions

Atascader o #93, Order or Rainbow
Louis Bercovitz
Mrs. Matthev Codon
Donald Bugh Coombs
Mrs. Clyde Crawford
Culver City Chari ty Club
Ernest B. DeLeon
Exeter # 25 , Order o! Ra.inbav
Fidelity Chapter or DeMolay
Fires tone :llnployee s, Salinas
CeneraJ. Telephone Co. Dnployees
J. Gibbs Sons
Fdvill C. Grant
Guy B. Serr
Mrs . Kathryn M. Hilla
George ft . Hosford
Herbert Ivey
Ma.lone, Denn1e,S cbottlky & Pearl
l.ou.18 5 • Mann

Earl H. Marsh

Martha Allan., East Ba,y, 1961

Mobil Oil Callparcy Daployee1
Alice "'1rray

$

75.41

l,500.00
21,695.45
53 ,423 .14

5,250.00
2,597 .25
4,879.14
1,669.44
l0,000 .00
20,179.37

15,000.00
2,235.73
2,500.00
3,000.00
9,305.56
2,506.27

500.00
1,000 .00
5,000.00
215.33
8,910.94

l,o64.53

ua.oo

ll,996.36
1,900.00

17.07
8,874.38

500.00
5,000.00
l,000.00

7.00
1,000.00

2l3.4o

Masonic Clubs Bakersfie ld Scottish Rite Bodie&
Lakewood Shrine Club, lDng Beach
Leisure World Masonic Club
219th Masonic Dist. Otfcrs. Allen.
Sacrll!llen to Scottish Rite Bodies
Union Pacific Masonic Club
Order Golden Slipper, Daleth Chapter
Order Job's Daughters , Bethel #J/39
Paci:tic Press »Dployeee
Raytheon Cauparcy
George H. Reeves
Rohr A1rcra1't :llnployees
Salinas Atta Coallrunity Cheat
San Marino Pound.a ti on, Inc.
Mr. & Mrs. Olarles s. Sau.c:l,o
Gertrude 1'. ScbUJDacher
Dr • a. Mrs • Hal W. Slll1th
Space Tech. Laborato ries, Inc.
&m City &msbine Club
SUperior C&l DeMol.ay
Martha II. Svi!t
lb.ited states Rubber Corporati on
W. J. Voit Rubber Corp.
Leslie E. \lood11orth
Mrs. Winifred. Oberle

114

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

115

!IDIORlAI.5 (Continued)
C. Arthur Akin
Edvard H. Aldridge
Ralph l!avtbome Alexander
Lauuel II. Allen
Rose R. Altvine
Frances Ambrose
Thomae Amend
Adeline Anderson
Charles A. Anderao11
John Edvard .Ander&Oll
Maril;yn Anderson
R&lph J. Anderson
Zola Anderson
Clarence Andresen
Julius Andresen
Aaron Asa Arbogast
Harry G. Arend, Sr .
Paul R. Arnett
John Ashbaugh
AU'red H. Aston

Adolph Edvard Baer
Starr H. Ba16ley
Joseph K. Baker
Ysabel w. Balter
Jon Bal.den
William Paul Baldwin
Larry E. Ball
Mr . Banda

Mrs. Helen B!lllta
:E>.lgene Barham
Mollie Barkoff
Ethel Barrett
Samuel Barrett
Mrs. Leona.rd A. Bartle
Sam Basa
George B&sseaier
George L. Batman, Jr.
Errol Beaughan
Sidon& Beaughan
Hiram George Beer
John Behrens
John A. Bell
Late L. Bell

Roland Bendel
J. Clark ll<!naon
John M. Benson
Margaret Berthiaune
Adolph Biederman
Elsie Biehl
Frank Edvard Bilderback
Claude H. Billingsley
Lipton Sorel.la Blaclc
Horace H. Blair
John Adolph Blake
Mro. Florence Blakeman
Wilhelm Ferdinand Block
Mary Blumenfeld
Arthur Math Bohnert
J. 'fucker Bolen
Dr. Alfred Bone
Henry A. Bopp
Ames Whitney Borrell
C>.ietav Juatee Bostrom

P. Maurice Bollman
Harold l!owlllan
Lee Boyd
Franklin D. Bradbury
Harold C. Braden
Mrs. Verta Bradley
George C~on Bre.niger
William S. Brannan
Percy J. Branson
Charles c. Bre11er
Henry S. Brewster
Wilford M. Briggs
Morris C. Brines
Boward L. Brock
James A. Brockus
Cyril A. Broderick
Dolores ~ Brouillard
F.dgar R • Brown
Mrs. Gladys Brawn
Leon Brown
Persons W. Brown
Dlvid Brunette
Dlvid 1111.ldo Bryant
HOlller Buckley
4-'rel Douglas Bullard
Leo A. Burghardt
Floyd Durell Burke
James E. Burke
Lawrence Bernard Burley
Robert Burnett , Sr.
Chauncey Burr
J ohn Meredith Burridge
Fdvard R. Burton
Arthur Campbell
John Cezapbell, Sr.
Thomas Ce.nn
Mary Carlson
Nels P. Carl.son, Jr.
Robert J. Carr
Ethyl Marle Chadsey
George Joel Chais
lllgcne Byard Chemberlain
Harry Berkeley Chandler
Ravl8tld A. Chapman
Mrs. Elida Chri stensen
Harry N. Christensen
Joseph S. Church
Robert C. Churchwell
I vor B. Clarlt
Lloyd B. Clark
Olive M. Clark
Hattie L. Claypool
Janet M. Cla;yton
August Cleaient
John Clerico
Leroy M. Cleveland
Mrs. Mae Cleveland
Fdward Clifford
Mar1!1ll Clough
Mrs. Elizabeth Coe
Arthur E. Colby
Frank Cole
Gord.on Cole

Mra. William Coleman, Sr.
Havard B. Coley

Arnold Colton
Mrs. Laura Cortright
John Cosmos
Anna M. Coward
Mra. E. L . Coyle
John E. Craig
John Holden Craig
Vergil H. Cross
Albert E. Cra\lford
Bohuoil Cuchna
Sara 1'.Jcille CUlvertson
Mrs . Grace Curtie
J811les Regin Daugherty
Henry David
Fern Leona Davis
Mrs. Gladys Davis
Jack Davis
John Samuel Dlvson
Alfred D. Dey
Pinkey B. Dean
John D. Dearing, Sr.
Raynor De~
Jim Deets
Mrs. El81e de !Aney
Joseph Del Valle
Elsie ~th Dennis
Paul Oglesby Dennie
David DeSmith
Thomas A. Dethlefsen
Walter Detlefson
Cecil E. Dewey
Gustav Dietsch
Alfred Louis Dilly
Jo1eph J . Diricloc
Ross Claude Dodge
George C. Dolt
Rudolph Donatelli
Rene E. Dorisse
William East Dorland
Mrs. Bessie M. Dorrett
W&lter C. Dorsett
Herbert H. DuBois
John R. DuChaney
Lloyd Dudley
Minerva DuFresne
John Wesley Duhig
Will111m lla,yne Dunkelberger
John M. Dunn
Everett s. Ilul'hllm
Joseph C. Ilul'hem
Melvin J. Dye
Warren Spencer Ebert
Herbert Fdell
Franl< C. Fdwards
llilliem D. Fdvard&
William M. Ed.wardi:;, Sr .
Carl G. :Elt
Marcus A. Epperson
Wail.ace L. Englund
Bruce w. Erhardt
Mrs. Elizabeth L. Ernst ·

aeorge Erving
Joseph E&coula
Mr&· Jolin Etheridge
Fred Etzold
Christina Evans
Benjamin Fairhurst
Charles Falk
Leslie Fargubar
IJ.icius B. Fnries
)o\yrtle Farnho.m
Franklin Fergusson
Michael Ferrante
I saac Lavern Fertig
Harry Ervin Fetig
Fclil< Fibush
14rs. Dennettie Fink
John C!Ulleron Finlny, Sr.
Howard Earl Fisher
John Wil liam Fleming
noavell s. Flover
Leland M. Ford, Sr.
Mrs. J. F. Forderer
Fay F. Foster
Walter Ray Foster
Mrs. Mar'J Fostine
Jaclc French
A. Friend
Mrs. Rhoda H. Frier
Mrs. Ida Fuller
Rol.llnd Fuller
Dr . Charles C. Fulmer
Charles Funkhouser
Fr1111lt Henry Gabbert
Mr•· L. M. Gagne
Herbert F. Galloupe
Florence Galvery
Harriet B. ~lord
Herbert A. Geach
Mrs. Corabel Ge8tl
John A. Gerber
Ra;y II. Getchel l
14rs. c. GilbertGon
George w. Gilliland
K. C. Gillis
Clyde P. Gilmore
Robert A. Gilmore
Lester Gerald Gilzie.n
Raymond. Giraud
Silvio Giuliani
Pearce Glasson
Eeter Goldstein
1111.lter V. Goodfellow
Henry P. Goodwin
Mrs . F.dna Gordon
Willimn Ambrose Gorman
Albert E. Gracie
Bernice Orville Graham
Charles Graham
Ralph Granlow
General Middleton Grant
Adol ph Gravert
Richard Gray
Richard v. Gregory, Sr.

Denjemin Howey
Gordon Lee Griffitts
llilliam B. Hoyt
Paul GroosG
Raeburn Y. Hubbard
Barney Gross
llilliam Hubbard
P. A. Grundy
Thomas Huchison
Harold A. Gutter
Alfred Hud1burg
Albert Hnas, Sr.
Mr';.
Carie Hug.lies
Dm>a Haaker
c. James Hughes
Glen R. !!all
Miehael James Hugbes
John II. Hallock
Mrs. Josephine Hunt
Robert Hrunilton
Wesley Jackson Hunt
Harry Handlery
Bertr8ltl H. Hunter
Mrs . Clara Hank
George E. Bunter
George A. Hannon
Vernon I. Huston
Ella Hnnsen
Arthur H;yne
John P. Hansen
&.iinett !rviD
Mnrgaret J, Hansen
Charle s Izmirian
Thoman K. Hansen
F.dgo.r Henri Jacot
Joseph Harnsta
Elizabeth Jensen Jamart
Mrs . All ce 11.ardy
Jack Janeway
RG,y111ond L. H.a:rkness
Clyde H. J enkills
Archibald L. Harper
Joseph Jenkins
James P. Harper
Joseph Alfred Jenkin•
Clarence Harris
Jsmes
Jensen
Clifford Harrison
W1lli8JJI Jewett
JM1es P. Hart
fue:ry Johnson
Ray Hartley
Frank R. JohnGon
111ll1am Frank Ha...-tm an
Jemes Allen John&on
Frank Harvell, Jr.
Orion w. Johnson
s. Leslie Hawken
Walter A. Johnson
Sadie Hawkins
Mrs . J ohnston
Albert T. Ho.ynes
Am8tlda L. Johnston
Ullinn Hays
Deborah Lucille Johnston
Clarence Williem Heckl11an
Fr1111lt R. Jones
O<Ullo Leander Hedtkamp
Leo D. Jones
Gladys Hendershott
Henry Jung
J3111es A. Henderson
Preston Harlan Kane
Ray Henderson
T. K. Kao
Karl Frederick Henkel
lloccr Karr
Mrs. France• Hendricltson
George L. ~
Otto Fuller Renville
MrG. Anna M. Keelan
John s. Hequembourg
Robert M. Keeley
Marcel ){erbelin
\/alter Keene
Walter Herndon
Ernest F. Kelby
Kenneth S. Herzog
Ed L. }(el.las
Milton Hesselberger
BnrOld M. Kelly
Mrs. H. D. Hetzler
F.dw in Kar1 J(eiop)<ey
Nathaniel M. Hill
Col. Theo. D. Kern
Mrs. Mary Hinds
Ralph Keslleye
Robert F. Hodge
Mrs. Louise KeeselJDan
Mrs. llllily Holbrook
Eva C, Ketcham
Frank Henry Hollenbeck
Wilma Ketridge
otto Holler
Alfred King
'W alter Holm
Vernon K1ll8
George Henry Holllles
Mrs. Laura Kirby
Mrs. Hazel Ho)Jlles
·Arthur Adolph Kirchner
llilllmn F, Holtz
11arren A. Kisner
ElJ11er M. Hopper
Val lCivett
Robert Finley Hopper
'Willism y, Kline
Mr . & Mrs. Wm. G. lil:lpper
\/alter E. IO.oatennan
Louis Horner
William A. JCnagge
Harold Hotz
EllJvorth A. Knig)lt
Curtis Houghto11
Joseph
R. ltl:loY laDd
Avery E. Bovey

116

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

117

1.m-:oRIALS (Continued)
Mrs· Alberta Kr 8111er
Jacob Kramer
Mra • Roee Krefcik
Mr. Mey .Kl.tock
Chnrles Kyte
Karl lcn<1berg
Kencel Lan<ion
Hildred Lengford
Henry Larsen
John Larsen
Rlllph V. Larsen
Oscar l.av ler
William Buck Lavrence
Mrs · Saro E. Le<idel

Charles George Miller
Mrs. Hazel Miller
Mro • Leah Minette
Harry L. Misbkind
h"Mk C. Mohr
Olive Mohr
Al Monro
Charles P. Montague
Carl E. Moore
Forrest F. Moore
John T. More
George G. Morgan
Marvin B. Morgan
'"illilllll P. Morley
Zillah Leddy
Carl Bernard Morris
Emery Chnrles Lee
Hury E. Morris
Oscar Lee
Altred Motander
John W. Leidenberger
Sidney Moyle
Ethan Charles Lemunyan
George Muller
Frederick Alten Lenfestey
John S. ""1nger
Mrs. Celia Letson
Sydney L. Munro
Frank Levine
Dean Vernon Murphy
lma G. Levy
Mrs. l'.allel Murphy
Lorena Levellen
George C. Murray
»met I. Levis
William B. Murray
Buckshot B. Lien
Mrs· Mary McBennett
Thomas Rovley Roltan Lillie Frllllk McCamish
Foong L1ID
Mrs. Eli:z.abeth McCann
Bessie Dunn Lindell
W1lliM Beattie McC&ughin
Mrs. Verna Lindley
Morris J. McCauley
Henry Huso Looysin
Melvin M. McConnell
Tom J. lDvell
Mrs. Doris McDonald
!lolly E. lDvinguth
Robert B. McElvain
William E. IJ:Nry
Roderick McKenzie
Mra. George H. Luce
A. H. McKillicllll
Anton I.udvig
Boward M. McKinley
Sadie lumry
John McLeod
Mab le J.undst rom
Robert Henderson McMann
John luschcn
B. W• ¥.cloU llan
\lilli1111: Murray I.Ylea
James Mahlen Mc~
Donald Macdono.l.d
Mrs. Sylvia K. Mc\lillillll&
Frnncis G. MacGinnis
George W. Nabors
I:Wlcan Mackellar
Malcolm II. Nason
&rah MacLearn
Melvin O. Naugle
\lilliam I. Madeira
William G. Neale
Frank D. Mll8inn1s
Conrad O. Nelson
Kenneth L. Malcolm
Edvin Grill Nelson
Spiro Mandich
Henry Nelson
Harl.4nd Ceorge Mansfield
Milton V. Nelson
Harry Hull Me.r1Jhllll
Berkley Neustadt
Monroe I. Markuse
Grover II . Nickell
Jacob Lester Martin
C1.nthia llisbet
Joseph Martin
W. James lliebet
William C. Mason
Mrs. Birdie Nokes
Robert Mattersteig
M. J. North
Joseph L. Meyers
Mnrk NusbBUlll
Gil.Gey Harry Meding
W. S. O'Connor
Fred C. Mcrri11111
Mrs. Lucille· Odgera
Henry C. Meyer
William W. Oliver
Hans 1'Uchelsen
O&cu W. Olsen
Mrs. G. II. Milford
Mrs· Judi th P . Otvell
Albert H. Miller
Hovard L. Pack
Charles A. Miller
George c. Packard

Alden Charles P&lmer
Mrs. Carleton E. Palmer
Nick Pnnos
linrold 0. Parkinson
Dr. Roy H. Parkineon
Harry Leland Pa11tman
EDolean Parry
'Ihomu Patrick
Daniel PatterBOD
Charles E. Paul.
Roy P~e
Cbarles II. Peale
Clarence W. Peck
Virgil Pembroke
Mrs. Flora Perttin.
Henry L. Perry
Forrest Perry
Bernllrd M. Peterson
L. M. Peterson
Mrs. Paul A. Pflueger
Harry W. Phi ll1pa
Letty Irene Phillips
Mrs. Dina P1eperl.1ng
George Warren Pierce, M.D.
John F. Pingley
Mrs. Hnud Pitt•
Chnrles Rayniond Pl.att
Leonard T. Pockman
John Blount Fl:>ol
Robert R. Porter
Eli~abeth Pottell8er
Elmer R. Pound
George M. Powell
lll:Llph !I. Pratt
J. H. Preston
Philip J. Purser
Leonnrd B. Radtke
Hugh Allen Rae
Orton James Rapp
Warren Read
Robert Reader
Oeorge Red!'ord
Clnrcnce Reed
Harry E. Reid
John Reidt
Berne.rd I. Reinherz
Mervin Henry Reith
Frank L. Richards
James Henry Richards
Levis A. Richardson
Harold F. Ridde.r
Mrs. Jessie Robertson
I.avrence Robinson
Ferdinand P. Roeber
Mrs. Blanche Irvine Roepke
William S. Rogers
&lgene W. Roland
Marvin G. Ronk
Mrs. Mary K. Rose
Joseph J. Ro&edal.e
Myron K. Rosenberg
1'oel "II. Roser
Gordon C. L. Ro81

Hoaret J. ROH
Jobrl Rostas
Lafayette Rounsavelle
Gordon G. Rove
George A. Rudloff
Lester B. Rund.le
ciara J. Rupley
Roy R. Russell, Sr.
c;eorge E. Russler
Clark David Ry1111
Earl William St. Clair
Carl Arthur Sanborn
Marie L. Sanders
George Sargent
Robert E. Sa."<e
Willa.rd C. Scha&f
Albert c. Scheele
Robert Scheile
earl Anton Schneider
Samuel Schneider
Herbert Scholfield
Mrs. Elsey V. Schrey
William A. Schrllllpfermen
F.<ivard H. Schroeder
\/alter Schroeder
Albert Schvar~
Clarence Scott
Thanas M. Scott
John E. Sears
George 11. Seaton
George W. Scherer, Sr.
Albert J . Seller
Charles Watson Sellick
George Henry Senger
Daryl Sheehan
Mrs. R. D. Shelton
Alexander Sberrifts
Richard Mvard ShQre
John A. Sickler
Leo Sicotte
Mendel B. Silberberg
John B. Sil:lons
Morton SiJl:onsen
Max Siney
Adrinn G. Sira
Rueeell w. Sleyme.n
V1odin:ere Sllpich
George A. SlocUll
Arthur Calvin Smith
Ernest Fred Smith
Marguerite Saith
Lenllrd Smith
Roy Sluith
R. Thornton Smith
Charles Wade Snook
Jet'O!!le Snov
Earl Forrest Sncrvden
Fred Snyder
Maurice c. Sparling
Donald Spaulding
Charles Christian Spiegel
Fred Spring
llugo !I. \I. StUD

Harold St1111di sh
Jerry W. Starr
Mrs. J. Wm. J. Stedman
Albert 0. Ste1n
Mrs . Anne Stelling
Anders Oscar Stenberg
George T. Stevens
Samuel A. Stevenson
John J, Stigman
l.Ydia M. Stobring
Leonard Smith Stoker
Merlin Oscar Strain
Paul F.d<!ar Strait
Roy Stratton
Grover Cline Sullivan
Thalllls c. Sullivan, Jr.
Cora p. Sunderlan<1
J. G. Swain
Thanas w. Swan
Peter M. Sv1111son
Paul Theophilus Swedberg
Karsten A. Sveen
F.<l."ard 8"eitzer
Mrs. Helene Svingholm
George R. Switzer
Claiborne Mason Talley
Roy Talley
Harold Julius Taylor
Will H. Taylor
Laura B. Tennis
Merle A. Thanas
Mrs. Myrtle 'lll<lmAS
Flossie Thompson
Frederick Thocpson
Lester ThCJlllPSOO
Seymour H. 'lballpaon
William David Tl>Ompaon
Frank Thornton
Charles William Thurlov
Richard Til.leson
Gilbert Loraine Torgeson
Alfred F. Tritten
Robert Eiward Tubb&
Albert L. 'funiaon
William Anthony Turnbull
George Von Staden
Clara Voae
Rus&ell \lage.ner
Robert llalbey
A. O. Walde
Jlllllel R. Walker
otie H. Walker
Ernest Bearer Wallace
James William Wallace
Arthur George Walsh
Mre. F1orence M. Waltz
George S. . Ward
Clarence C. Warden
~'rMklln E~ Warner
John E. Watson
Milton Watt
John Webb
Jobn Weber

Roger Webater
Mrs. Katherine Weethee
Louis weias
William Donald Wentzel
Rosa Werner
Elmer H. Weymouth
Patrick Slnith Whalen
Fred Wheeler
Mrs. V. McDovell llhite
William McKinnon Whi tme.n
Leon O. \lhitsell
William H. W1ggins
Burt Wikle
Charles llilbanks
Albert Wheeler Wilborn
Mrs. Augusta Wildenre.dt
Leo Milton \lil.l<ins
cec 11 Willett
Herbert Williams
Martin M. Williams , Sr.
Martin S. Williams, Sr.
Richard Clarence Willis
Fart& B. Wilkin
Andrew H. Wilson
Audrey Wilson
Jeff ·~Uson
Herman Winetrub
Jesse w. Winton
Benton P. Wisehart
i!Clzl"r H. llood
William Wood
William Everett wood
Mrt1. Uriel PeUygrev Wood
Barry M. lloodmansee
Lee H. Woods
Clarence E. Woolford
?lyles Woolley
John A. Worley
Bertram E. worth
Qiarles ?I. Wunterllck
Ch&rles A. Yaeger
Burton G. Young
Walter lleill Young
Willi""' T. Young
Paul Gerhardt Zacher
\/alter Ernest Zerveck
Elsie M. Zook
Arthur F. Kuz:li:er

118

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

119

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTION S TO ENDOWMENT FUND
*Denotes Honor Roll

Contrlb.

1966

Membership
Lode•
74
89 Rose's Bar ..............
96
91 North Star ............
93 St. H elena .............. 133
95 Henry Clay ............ 85
98 Hornitos ................ 109
99 Yosemite···-··········-· 503
101 Clay ........................ 108
103 Oroville .................. 397
104 Lexington .............. 645
106 Arcata .................... 335
110 P ajaro .................... 402
111 Chico ......... ............. 615
73
112 Summit -·-·······-·······
113 Eden ........... ........... .. 433
117 Concord-···········---··- 373
120 Fidelity .................. 573
122 Alamo ·····-----·······-·- 459
244
123 Sotoyome
124 Table Mou ntain .. 360
126 La F ayette ·····-····-· 221
127 Hermann··-·····-·-····· 154
128 Visalia ··-····-·······-··· 569
129 Nicolaus ................ 143
131 Woodbridge .......... 194
132 Sincerity -···-···--····· 91
134 Vacaville·-·····-···---·· 315
93
135 Valley ....................
136 P acific ........... ...... ... 499
139 Crockett ········-··-···- 406
140 Curtis ·-····-·-·······-··--- 94
141 Grafton ·····--··········· 102
143 Franklin ................ 141
144 Orienta l----·····-·-·-· 278
145 Vitruvius ...:............ 144
146 Abell ...................... 352
147 Eel River ····-····-···- 264
149 Lassen -·······-········--- 241
150 Molino .................... 156
156 Woodland .............. 317
161 Keystone ................ 47
164 Harmony ···------------·
32
166 Excelsior ................ 374
167 Alameda ................ 344
168 Redwood City -----· 668
169 Mission ·-·····------·-··· 549
173 Elk Grove-··-··--······ 150
174 Drytown ................ 78
175 Antioch -··-··-··--······· 399
178 Phoenix ···-·······--·-·-· 746
179 Mendocino ·-·-··-····- 108
335
180 Petaluma
181 Russian R iver -·--·· 123
182 Arbuckle ···-······------ 83
183 Clear Lake ·----·-····· 161
184 Sierra Valley--·---·28
185 Claiborne -········--···
80
186 Evening Star -··--··- 82
187 Keith ------···-·-----· 194

No.

1966

1965
Contrib.

Membenhlp
lode•
California .............. 408
1,780.00•
2 Western Star ........ 236
266.00
3 ~eh?1:1a ·-·-----·········· 812
4,090.00 ·
5
emc1a .................. 226
916.oo•
8 Tuolumne .............. 287
869.00·
9 Corinthian ······-··-·· 440
925.oo•
10 San Jose ·--······-······ 507
1,910.60•
12 Yount -···-··-···-···-······ 548
1,375.50•
13 Nevada -············-···· 182
456.oo•
14 Temple .................. 276
672.55°
16 Eureka ............... ..... 388
1,483.50°
17 La Parfaite Union 101
236.50•
18 Mountain Shade .. 61
137.oo•
19 San J oaquin .......... 766
1,709.50°
20 Washington ---······- 852
3.105.08•
21 Hawaiian .............. 387
1,717.50•
22 Occidental ............ 554
1,317.oo•
23 Madison -······--········· 328
748.61°
24 Mariposa ·······---··--·· 195
483.20*
25 Georgetown .......... 68
256.00*
26 El Dorado .............. 292
1,245.75•
27 Trinity ······-············· 174
403.65*
30 Golden Gate.......... 472
1,514.20•
32 goh~ H ill ·-·-·--··-·--··· 128
309.26*
33
p ir ...................... 117
242.25*
35 San Diego···-··--·-·-·· 1,007
3,268.45*
37 Howard .................. 275
550.00•
38 Santa Cruz ............ 536
1,185.92°
40 Sacramento .......... 808
3,672.00•
41 Martinez ........ ........ 420
1,250.81 *
42 Los Angeles ····-··-·· 1,106
3,605.01 *
43 Hiram .................... 133
420.74*
44 Mount Moriah ...... 293
767.00*
45 Crescent ·-·············- 221
452.50*
46 Texas ...................... 51
75.50
50 Forbestown .......... 143
445.oo•
51 Illinoistown -··-····-·
144.00
78
55 Suisun ·-·······-······-··· 321
1,149.00°
56 Volcano ···--·-------····· 124
785.87•
57 Santa Rosa ............ 645
2,437.15°
58 Union ...................... 682
2,100.45*
59 Gravel Range-··-···- 104
192.00
60 Plumas .................. 178
734.60*
61 Live Oak ··-·····-······· 823
3,044.75°
64 Natoma -·-··········---·- 394
1,322.75*
65 Amador -············--···
287.62°
98
68 Morning Star ........ 654
1,828.00·
70 Enterprise .............. 373
901.00°
76 Bear Mountain ....
82
209.50 °
78 Calaveras ·········--·-- 132
302.00•
79 Humboldt ·······--····· 520
1,548.50°
80 Ione ·-·-··········-·········
363.00*
98
81 Yolo ·--····-·····-·-··--···· 105
444.oo•
84 Vesper -······---··--······ 248
108.50
87 Naval ·-···------······-···· 1,108
4,689.88*

No.

1

1966
Contrib.

1966 P1rtlclpat1on
Members %

1,908.00·
1.027.31°
3,866.25*
746.03°
611.05*
892.00•
2,029.50*
2,347.50*
622.17*
892.25°
1,446.50*
240.00*
210.50°
2,383.50•
4.261.65*
1,769.oo•
1,573.00*
795.00·
484.50°
174.75°
1,365.25*
352.00*
1,531.00·
453.00°
394.50*
4,075.42°
766.04*
1,078.50*
3,425.25°
1,246.35°
5,129.98*
548.50*
773.75*
466.00*
110.00*
516.50°
247.oo•
743.42*
794.50°
2,202.00•
1,969.00*
241.50*
409.00*
3,176.00*
1,296.85*
253.oo•
1,977.25*
1,133.50*
. 154.00
300.00•
968.00
317.50*
369.76*
182.20
4,222.50*

173 42
179 76
536 66
129 57
133 46
112 25
243 48
283 52
116 64
140 51
212 55
66 65
40 66
296 39
494 58
210 54
191 34
166 51
80 41
41 60
136 47
66 38
259 55
79 62
62 53
545 54
137 50
232 43
504 62
215 51
480 43
94 71
90 31
142 64
30 59
90 63
48 62
84 26
98 79
284 44
328 48
39 38
109 61
288 35
209 53
57 58
289 44
166 45
25 30
67 51
224 43
66 67
60 57
34 14
725 65

11 ..,.,.
Cont rib.

Per
Member

4.67
4.35
4.76
3.30
2.12
2.02
4.00
4.28
3.41
3.23
3.72
2.37
3.45
3.11
5.00
4.57
2.83
2.42
2.48
2.56
4.67
2.02
3.24
3.53
3.37
4.04
2.78
2.01
4.23
2.96
4.63
4.12
2.64
2.10
2.15
3.61
3.16
2.3 1
6.40
3.41
2.88
2.32
2.29
3.85
3.29
2.58
3.02
3.03
1.87
2.27
1.86
3.23
3.52
.73
3.81

._.......

1965

1966

Contrlb.

Contrlb.

219.oo •
85.00
431.50•
405.oo•
112.00
1,095.25°
404.oo•
909.50.
1.959.18*
1,319.75•
844.50•
1,873.21 *
205.90•
1,448.13*
1,008.0o•
2,232.00•
905.oo•
782.25*
784.00*
256.46
566.09*
1,863.16*
362.50*
667.50.
297.60*
787.25*
176.50
1,289.50°
1,391.36*
202.50°
158.50
546.50•
1,221.50*
455.00*
626.50
111.00•
414.25
490.50°
659.25°
25.00
37.00
1,827.50*
955.50*
2,303.50°
1,550.50 °
604.oo•
192.00*
688.17
1,935.01 *
114.50
970.50*
418.oo•
191.50°
88.00
81.00*
173.50*
290_50•
422.50*

292.75*
215.00*
410.00•
600.00*
170.00
1,172.01 *
417.85*
1,219.20*
2,710.18*
1,443.50*
918.00*
1,726.70*
248.50*
1,199.64*
1,376.85•
2,604.00*
1,163.50*
785.02*
814.18*
297.50
655.95*
1,981.36*
459.00*
621.50•
319_50•
761.00*
131.00
1,065.50*
1,227.75*
239.37*
270.00*
529.oo•
1,135.50*
446.00*
762.00°
839.00°
528.00*
586.50•
746.15*
49.00
91.00*
1,966.50*
1,099.72°
2,724.50°
1,709.85*
457.00*
210.00•
713.50
2,260.09*
138.25
1,006.50*
443.50*
234.10*
134.00
86.00*
75.50
262.50*
443.50*

1966 P1rtlclp1tlon
Members

%

76 100
41 43
88 66
71 84
30 28
162 32
56 52
357 90
347 54
133 40
187 47
388 63
33 45
162 37
230 62
294 51
170 37
144 59
212 59
53 24
120 78
325 57
85 59
117 60
55 60
130 41
22 24
137 27
170 42
41 44
41 40
91 65
134 48
81 56
167 47
141 53
105 44
85 54
140 44
8 17
29 91
178 48
128 37
401 60
225 41
71 47
31 40
185 46
329 44
22 20
169 50
73 59
35 42
29 18
9 32
9 11
52 63
101 52

Member

3.95
2.23
3.08
7.05
1.55
2.33
3.86
3.07
4.20
4.30
2.28
2.80
3.40
2.77
3.69
4.50
2.53
3.21
2.26
1.34
4.25
3.48
3.20
3.20
3.51
2.41
1.40
2.13
3.02
2.54
2.64
3.75
4.08
3.09
2.16
3.17
2.19
3.75
2.35
1.04
2.84
5.25
3.19
4.07
3.11
3.G4
2.69
1.78
3.02
1.28
3.00
3.60
2.82
.83
3.07
.94
3.20
2.28

120

No.

PROCeBDrNGS OP TIJE

Lodre

l!IM
Membership

188 Oakland
682
190 Northern
129
191 Marin ...................... 522
192 Santa Barbara ...... 371
193 Ferndale ................
8'3
194 Mountain View .... 412
195 Buckeye ................ 134
196 San Simeon .......... 102
198 Wilmington .......... 654
199 Hartley .................. 237
200 Truckee .................. 150
201 Silveyville ............ 158
202 Pentalpha .............. 398
203 Confidence ............ 127
204 Salinas .................... 602
205 Olivet
148
206 Stanisla;:;;·=:::::::::::: 666
207 Anaheim ·--··-······· 520
208 Rio Vista ................ 172
209 King David's ........ 399
210 Friendship ............ 723
211 San Benito ............ 175
212 So. San Francisco 203
214 San Buenaventura 445
215 Oak Grove ............ 506
216 Doric
365
217 Monte;~;.-··:::::::::::::: 295
218 Mosaic .................... 296
219 Speranza Italiana 204
220 Downey .................. 962
221 Inyo ........................ 142
222 Roseville ................ 506
224 Bakersfield ............ 739
225 Brooklyn .............. 414
226 San Mateo ............ 601
228 Athens .................... 197
229 Solano .................... 502
230 North Butte .......... 241
231 Covelo ....................
73
232 Janesville .............. 140
233 Calistoga ................ 117
234 Hope ...................... 107
235 Surprise Valley .... 104
236 Hills Ferry ............ 164
237 Guadalupe ............ 257
240 Colusa .................... 166
241 Santa Ana ............ 598
242 Magnolia ................ 511
243 Eucalyptus ............ 560
244 Alcatraz ................ 478
245 La urel
251
246 Pomona··:::::::::::::::::: 427
247 Fresno .................... 698
248 Alturas
188
250 Adin ...... :::~:::::::::::::
91
253 Landmark
112
254 Reading ......:::::::::::: 345
255 Welcome ................ 200

Light··::::

1965
Contrlb.

2,956.50•
308.75•
2,031.00•
1,570.16•
305.46*
1,627.25*
784.oo•
196.75
2,690.09*
367.00
1,054.70*
401.50*
2,580.00*
434.50*
1,730.06*
454.50*
1,617.34•
1,700.69*
821.50*
1,208.22*
2,188.00*
546.00*
737.50*
1,465.34•
1,613.50•
1,134.00*
1,155.50•
880.50•
1,014.00*
5,048.00*
447.50•
2,262.33*
2,590.30*
970.00*
2,495.50 *
544.00•
1,063.oo•
633.00*
64.00
337.00*
24.2.00*
346.00*
20.00
514.50*
850.29*
219.00
1,535.70*
2,725.50*
1,711.50*
1,345.00*
810.oo•
1,264.92*
1,687.73*
309.50
101.00
244.50*
1,500.00*
340.86

121

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1966
Contrib.

1966 PortlclP1tlon
lhmben %

2,239.so•
290_50•
2,785.70•
1,297.50*
266.oo•
2,525.00*
301 .00•
240.00*
2,933.89*
356.00
868.75*
392.00•
1,960.00·
548.00*
1,646.00*
296.00*
1,622.49*
1,602.32*
589.00*
1,301.69*
1,728.25*
553.75*
678.25*
1,518.48*
2,248.oo•
1,102.50•
1,151.45•
741.50•
811.00·
4,300.72*
513.oo•
2,166.50*
3,012.06*
1,246.25•
2,004.50*
843.50*
1,269.85*
654.50*
63.75
351.00*
187.00
362.00*
64.50
372.00*
932.10*
145.00
2,067.42*
2,606.45*
2,121.00•
1,025.oo•
708.50*
1,504.54*
1,979.00*
342.50
124.00
282.00•
414.54*
1,281.00*

263 39
48 37
316 61
229 62
58 67
234 57
82 61
37 36
321 49
45 19
90 60
80 51
191 48
101 80
340 56
78 53
254 38
209 40
109 63
209 52
278 38
103 59
111 55
228 51
256 51
102 28
240 81
136 46
104 51
402 42
81 57
280 55
341 46
141 34
271 45
109 55
185 37
177 73
15 21
74 53
60 51
96 90
13 13
65 40
122 47
21 13
218 36
434 85
311 56
160 33
112 45
264 62
293 42
188 100
28 31
105 94
77 39
177 51

•-•re
Contrlb.

,.,

llembor

3.28
2.25
5.33
3.49
3.09
6.12
2.24
2.35
4.48
1.50
5.79
2.48
4.92
4.31
2.73
2.00
2.43
3.08
3.42
3.26
2.39
3.16
3.34
3.41
4.44
3.02
3.90
2.50
3.97
4.47
3.61
4.28
4.07
3.01
3.33
4.28
2.52
2.71
.87
2.50
1.59
3.38
.62
2.26
3.62
.87
3.45
5.10
3.78
2.14
2.82
3.52
2.83
1.82
1.36
2.51
2.07
3.71

1966
llo.

l.odre

lhmbonhlp

Lodi ························ 403
Penrhyn ................ 135
Evergreen .............. 721
King Solomon's
Seaport .............. 554
88
261 Tuscan ....................
262 Lompoc .................. 319
264 Hesperian .............. 437
265 Orland············--·-··· 176
87
267 Galt -········-··········---268 Durant ....... ............. 353
269 Olive Branch ........ 304
44
271 Snow Mountain ....
272 Pasadena •••Hoo•••••• • 490
273 Anchor . ................. 590
274 Arroyo .................... 210
275 Oakda le .................. 218
277 Selma --··············-··· 212
278 So. California -----· 380
279 Hanford .................. 231
280 Madera ..................... 280
281 Mount Shasta ...... 170
282 CalJayomi ..............
66
283 South West ............ 555
285 San Miguel ............
80
286 Paso Robles .......... 281
........
287 Winnedumah
235
288 Maxwell ··--------·-·-·65
289 Elsinore .................. 130
290 East Gate .............. 581
291 Santa Paula ···-····· 419
292 Los Gatos ".............. 435
293 Orange Grove ...... 385
294 Traver .................... 140
295 Mt. J a ckson .......... 122
296 Silver Gate ............ 1,190
297 Dunsmuir .............. 240
299 Liberty ··-----------·--- 395
300 Redlands ................ 486
301 Ontario .......... ........ 522
302 Santa Lucia .......... 168
303 Porterville
511
304 Reedley···-············· J 51
305 Azusa ...................... 325
306 Ashlar .................... 332
307 Santa Monica ........ 350
308 Monro via
336
309 Delano .................... 247
310 Sisson ..................... 104
312 Los Banos .............. 184
313 Tehachapi .............. 178
314 Temescal ................ 293
315 Norwalk ...................... 424
316 Sanger ................. .. 319
317 Fallbrook .................. 168
318 Emanuel ................
83
319 Hollenbeck ............ 657
320 South Gate ............ 422

256
258
259
260

""""

Contrlb.
Ptr
Member

Contrib.

1965

1966
Contrlb.

1916 Participation
Memben %

848.75•
446.29*
2,902.44•

950.so•
274.oo•
2,297.70*

137 34
58 43
236 33

2.35
2.02
3.18

1,006.50
114.00
934.25*
2.150.54*
516.00*
348.62*
656.45
612.00*
55.00
3,842.88*
2,667.33*
492.25*
490.50*
502.50*
2,982.70*
350.00
728.50*
222.00
26.00
1,441.50•

1,263.50•
125.00
1,250.25*
2,238.43*
531.00*
538.50*
888.00*
458.05
60.00
2,107.29*
3,385.59*
573.68•
513.00*
708.00*
2,861.67*
462.25*
650.00*
374.50*

219
23
219
268
97
68
113
76
10
222
362
102
102
113
192
76
112
75

40
26
69
61
55
78
32
25
23
45
61
49
47
53
51
33
40
44

2.28
1.42
3.91
5.12
3.01
6.18
2.51
1.50
1.36
4.30
5.73
2.73
2.35
3.33
7.53
2.00
2.32
2.20

1,484.00*
260.13•
782.25·
966.62*
134.22*
337.47*
2,980.56*
1,076.52*
993.00*
1,570.72•
372.95*
384.00*
2,649.26•
736.00*
1,387.oo•
2,651.40*
1,160.99*
465.75*
1,660.00*
555.50*
1,499.30*
1,300.60*
2,756.37•
667.25
881.46*
238.oo•
325.00
703.oo•
1.138.46.
1,334.71 •
686.00*
581.43*
198.95*
9,344.28*
1,916.13*

283
42
174
169
31
61
307
163
206
223
48
79
379
131
217
314
228
70
242
79
212
191
198
86
120
48
108
166
167
199
156
120
48
238
216

51
53
62
72
48
47
53
39
47
58
34
65
32
55
55
65
44
42
47
52
65
58
57
26
49
46
59
93
57
47
49
71
58
36
51

2.67
3.25
2.78
4.11
2.06
2.59
5.13
2.56
2.28
4.07
2.66
3.14
2.22
3.06
3.51
5.45
2.22
2.77
3.24
3.67
4.6 1
3.91
7.87
1.98
3.56
2.28
1.76
3.94
3.88
3.14
2.15
3.46
2.39
14.22
4.54

976.17•
668.77*
134.00*
316.50*
2,796.07*
1,537.48*
882.00*
1,370.21 *
393.78*
388.00*
2,720.69*
815.50*
1.393.50•
2,526.75*
1,519.50•
408.75*
1,787.00*
475.00*
975.79·
1,068.90*
2,753.25*
743.74*
1,411.41*
274.oo•
439.50*
539.50 °
1,223.00*
1,327.78*
675.50*
529.15•
161.00
3,219.51 *
1,869.99*

122

No.

lodr•

1966
Membe11hlp

321 Alisal ............... ....... 213
322 Alhamb ra ·-··········· 617
323 Whittier ................ 749
324 Corona .................... 416
325 Consuel o ··-···----··-··· 423
326 Needles ........... ....... 310
327 Long Beach --······-· 626
328 Redondo ·--·--··-······ · 787
329 Valle de France.. .. 123
330 Kilauea .................. 186
331 P acific Grove ........ 317
332 San Pedro .............. 573
333 Alta -··-·····--···----·-··· 151
334 Covina ................ .... 566
335 West Gate -··------··· 1,146
336 Fruitval e ··-·-----··--- 735
337 Carquin ez ··-···-·---··- 171
338 San J acinto .......... 117
339 Fullerto n ······-----··- 412
341 Oxnard --······-········· 429
343 San F ernando ...... 739
344 Starr King ·------····· 509
345 Brentwo od ·····----··· 171
346 Palo Alto .............. 766
347 McKinle y .............. 464
348 San Be rnardino .... 1,015
349 Sequoia ·--········--···· 875
351 Palestin e --······----···· 416
352 Sunset -·-··-···-···-----·· 287
353 Pinole ··------····-·· ····· 193
354 Presidio .................. 375
355 Hollywo od ............ 1,158
356 Mill Valley ............ 436
357 Buena Park .......... 449
358 Golden State ........ 516
359 Loyalto n .............. .. 87
360 San Francisc oVictory ................ 401
361 Fort Bragg ............ 153
362 Charity .................. 209
363 Berkele y ................ 550
365 Willits .................... 155
366 Las P almas ............ 1,073
367 South Pasaden a .. 532
368 Unity ...................... 559
369 Ocean Park .......... 473
370 Amity-S eal Rock.. 509
371 le Progres de
l'Oceani e ............ 691
372 Gardena ................ 570
373 West Los Angeles 478
374 Jewel ...................... 197
375 Richmo nd .............. 381
376 Francis Drake ...... 443
377 A r t esia ·····----··-······ 245
378 Mizpah ·-··············-· 329
379 Fillmore ···········-·· · 231
380 Huntina ton Beach 376

123

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE
A..rae•
Contrib.
Per

1965
C<intrlb.

1966
Cont rib.

1966 P1rtldp1tlon
Membe11 %

680.00*
2,711. 16•
1,940.82°
1, 742.31 *
1,540.51•
18.38
3,390.12•
2,731.27*
474.00 ·
647.50*
861.93*
1,546.94*
466.00·
2,298.28•
4,175.79•
2,250.00 •
503.00·
258.46•
1,302.56•
1,057.50•
2,211 .31 •
1,549.00·
516.50*
2,419.50*
1,561.50*
2,745.24*
2,764.00 ·
1,333.82•
1,171.84*
432.14*
936.50*
6,095.59*
1,357.25*
1,700.35*
2,187.80°

568.50°
3,233.65*
1,621.66°
1,670.67*
1,205.17*
1,467.70*
4,222.02 •
3,244.47*
485.oo•
806.00*
713.72*
1,158.42*
564.50*
2,015.67*
4,625.77*
2,255.50°
532.50*
360.34*
1,390.37*
1,021.43*
2,349.54*
1,970.00•
541.50"
2,632.00 •
1,476.50 °
2,608.72*
2,585.oo •
1,469.79*
1,290.69°
523.00•
1,350.00 ·
6,145.11 •
1,555.89*
1,890.87*
2,228.91*
154.00

142 67
482 78
181 24
253 61
181 43
304 98
420 67
336 43
90 73
147 79
104 33
132 23
102 68
262 46
516 45
452 61
97 57
70 60
158 38
116 27
380 51
360 71
99 58
440 57
153 33
345 34
386 44
235 56
175 61
100 52
135 36
596 51
202 46
272 61
262 51
19 22

2.66
5.24
2.16
4.01
2.84
4.73
6.74
4.12
3.94
4.33
2.25
2.02
3.73
3.56
4.03
3.06
3.11
3.07
3.37
2.38
3.17
3.87
3.16
3.43
3. 18
2.57
2.95
3.53
4.49
2.70
3.60
5.30
3.56
4.2 1
4.31
1.77

1,044.50*
288.17
531.00•
878.50
233.50
2,598.54*
1,895.90°
2,360.60°
1,511.14*
1,454.00·

1,118.00 ·
529.26*
774.35°
1,278. 75*
329.50°
2.976.15*
2,129.23*
2,098.44°
1,930.52*
1,613.40*

201 50
174 100
137 66
208 38
40 26
458 43
258 48
314 56
198 42
220 43

2.78
3.45
3.70
2.32
2.12
2.77
4.00
3.75
4.08
3.1 6

2,425.50*
2,337.60*
2, 775.40•
605.58•
1,233.50*
1,839.00*
909.77°
2,809.64*
1,006.50*
1,163.38*

2,440.75*
2,286.13•
2,783.82*
594.50°
1,485.80•
2,274.oo•
1,138.62*
3,000.52*
1,036.00*
1,264.99*

362
278
242
86
257
235
130
217
142
193

52
49
51
44
67
53
53
66
61
51

3.53
4.01
5.82
3.01
3.89
5.13
4.64
9.12
4.48
3.36

Member

No.

lodr•

1966
Membe11hlp

381 Oceansi de .............. 537
382 Highlan d P ark .... 529
383 Orosi ...................... 143
384 El Centro ····--·-······ 483
385 Dinuba ·····-----·-····· 280
387 Coaling a ................ 354
388 Parnass us ... ........... 629
389 Palos Verdes ........ 678
390 Imperia l ................ 129
391 East Belt....... ......... 116
392 West Lake ............ 631
393 Balder .................... 453
442
394 Univers ity
395 Turlock ·········---······ 423
396 Apollo .................... 417
397 Rising Light .......... 894
399 Fraterni ty .............. 399
400 Burling ame .......... 622
401 Bay View .............. 612
402 Brawley ··············- - 233
403 Yerba Buena ........ 840
404 Glendor a ····--·-······-- 250
405 Monet a ········--·-······ 487
406 Burbank ···----········· 875
407 La Mesa ............... . 632
408 Sierra Madre ........ 197
409 Honolul u ............... . 408
410 Charter Rock ........ 233
411 Perris ...................... 178
412 Calexico ................ 132
414 Ar li ngton .............. 235
415 Silver Trowel ...... 400
416 Lindsay ..:............... 203
417 Clovis ............... ..... 580
418 Elysian .................. 380
419 Upland .................. 287
420 Kerman .................. 152
727
421 I nglewoo d
422 Eagle Rock ··--·-······ 474
423 York ·····-······---·······-· 302
424 Exeter ............... ..... 233
425 Holtvill e ····---·······-- 153
426 Midway ............... ... 422
427 Chino Valley........ 255
428 San Dimas --·-······-· 189
429 Pittsbur g .............. 349
430 Mccloud ............... . 99
431 Alpha...................... 482
433 Hammo nton .......... 105
434 Maricop a ··--········-· 17 5
435 Fairmou nt ............ 368
436 Claremo nt ............ 214
437 Lancast er .............. 590
439 Tyrian ............... ..... 235
440 Standard .............. 324
441 Coronad o ····-·-······· 3GG
442 Blackm er .............. 1, 118
443 Schofiel d ................ 320

1965
C<intri b.

1,741.85*
1,694.32*
612.00•
1,615.57°
579.oo•
1.327.12"
I.427.50*
2,091.37•
529.oo•
522.75°
3,201.09°
1,646.50*
1,725.3-!•
1,262.1 I •
1,334.65°
2,867.11 °
1,38 1.25°
2,129.50*
1,396.00*
986.49*
2,748.81 .
603.78•
1,765.61°
2,574.34*
2,145.59°
692. 42°
1,258.25°
927.50°
414.59*
1,085. 15°
1,718.24*
350.00
2,190.24*
1,586.7 1•
567.73°
409.57°
2,616.35*
2,282.00•
727.32°
718.50*
616.79*
1,062.10*
728.69*
687.52*
559.15
359.50*
1,312.50*
243.oo•
686.47*
1,381.49°
881.83 *
2,618.95*
822.50°
1,465.76°
3,111.22*
701.25°

1966
Cont rib.

2,049.11 *
1,956.05*
337.00*
1,880.17*
753.oo•
1,341.92*
1,400.50*
2,235.30°
535.00*
320.00•
2,797.87*
3,015.50°
2,139.61 *
1,288.00°
1,556.85*
3,196.81 .
1,462.75°
2.338.50°
1.509.50°
1.018.16*
3,3!)1.50*
353.63
1,851.96*
2,734.36*
2,297.70 *
598.84*
1,649.75*
700.50°
438.97*
681.00•
1,119.12•
2,130.91 *
609.00*
2,305.69°
1,122.00•
583.43°
500.00•
2,411.09*
2,210. 13*
949.61°
941.84°
495.00*
1,052.34*
595.42*
95 1.60°
894.98*
329.00*
1,468.50°
318.00*
487.59*
1,306.99*
846.oo•
2,585.24*
205.00
661.37°
1,358.47°
2,938.25*
828.25°

1966 Participation
llhmbe11 %

327 61
263 50
71 50
297 61
123 44
181 51
238 38
252 37
89 69
57 49
376 60
226 50
224 51
228 54
251 60
494 55
192 48
281 45
241 39
153 66
195 23
57 23
235 48
506 58
317 50
84 43
412 100
84 36
73 41
91 69
165 70
229 57
93 46
299 52
141 37
127 44
99 65
256 35
285 60
117 39
95 41
67 44
179 42
89 35
113 60
137 39
57 58
210 44
59 56
67 38
227 62
100 47
376 64
30 13
94 29
169 46
441 39
132 41

A..rare
C<intrlb.
Por

._her

3.81
3.69
2.35
3.89
2.68
3.79
2.22
3.29
4. 14
2.75
4.43
6.65
4.84
3.04
3.73
3.57
3.66
3.75
2.46
4.36
4.03
1.41
3.80
3.12
3.63
3.04
4.04
3.00
2.46
5.15
4.76
5.32
3.00
3.97
2.95
2.03
3.28
3.31
4.66
3.14
4.04
3.23
2.49
2.33
5.03
2.56
3.32
3.04
3.02
2.78
3.55
3.95
4.38
.87
2.04
3.71
2.62
2.58

124

....

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

A--c•

lodp

1966

Membe~lp

444 Carpinteria ............ 162

445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463

464
465

466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
497
498
499
500

501

502
503
504

505

GRA ND LODG E O f

Wilshire ................ 426
La Puente ............ 281
Torrance ................ 624
Mount Diablo ...... 479
Park ........................ 367
Van Nuys .............. 1,172
Montebello ............ 684
San Pasqual .......... 545
Crocker .................. 538
Golden West ........ 490
Ramona .................. 521
Henry S. Orme...... 541
Riverbank
140
Mount Oso ............ 337
Argonaut .............. 334
Paul Revere .......... 558
Morgan Hill .......... 155
Alta Vista .............. 226
Center .................... 514
Libertas ................ 712
Culver City .......... 435
Rockridge ... ........ ... 387
Yorba Linda ........ 177
Lincoln .................. 353
Delta ...................... 484
Lodge Maui .......... 183
Blythe .................... 169
America ................ 385
Coachella .............. 291
Temblor ................ 124
Thousand Oaks .... 465
Golden Rule ........ 718
Fellowship ............ 274
Mt. Davidson ........ 347
Clarence F. Smith 300
Be ll.......................... 785
Albert Pi ke .......... 221
Chowchilla ............ 170
Caledonia .............. 559
Va llejo .................. 375
Patterson .............. 179
East Bay ................ 273
Corcoran ................ 137
Woodstock ............ 408
Garvanza .............. 294
Atlascadero .......... 153
Acorn ...................... 613
Lebanon ................ 396
F remont ................ 507
Stockton ................ 193
Capital City .......... 633
Roosevelt .............. 190
West wood .............. 240
Harbor .................... 552
Point ...................... 352
Seaside .................. 528
Silver Cord .......... 611

1965
Contrlb.

1966
Cont rib.

531.oo•
2,196.67*
887.50*
2,11 7.75*
1,936.00*
921.50*
5,754.02*
2,704.08*
2,710.62*
1,299.50*
2,415.10•
1,901.1 3*
2,127.46.
223.00
535.50
696.16*
1,960.oo•
367.00·
1,141.26*
1,166.50*
1.486.48*
2,534.33*
856.00*
550.81 *
2,162.00*
l, 787.35*
477.00*
370.50*
1,944.66*
1,394.86*
564.37*
1,504.48*
2,311.00*
905.50*
1,690.40*
1,343.47*
3,429.06*
781.49*
373.50*
1,711.85*
1,004.00·
360.00*
600.00*
157.00
980.03*
1,081.16*
323.95*
1,298.50*
853.50*
1,573.00*
279.00
1,762.00*
311.00
606.50*
1,9 19.58*
1,326.25*
2,140.63*
2,072.50*

665.00*
2,222.98*
935.79*
1,876.18*
2,134.27*
833.oo•
5,633.89*
2,750.05°
2,666.94*
1,117.00*
2,931.75*
2,214.15*
2,220.27*
285.00*
727.50*
I.230.35*
2,311.00*
322.48*
1,557.69*
1,402.07*
1,457.76*
2,168.40*
811.94°
554.74*
1,709.49*
1,613.75*
582.00*
650.50*
1,515.33*
1,333.87*
531.94°
1,224.57*
2,380.00*
1,006.00*
2,032.57*
1,288.80*
3,554.36*
1,118.03*
392.50*
1,973.40*
956.00*
330.00
550.00*
172.00
817.77•
1,453.02*
350.79*
1,215.50
739.50
1,522.00*
440.70*
1,537.25*
518.00*
636.97*
2,161.75•
1,372.00*
2,228.92*
1,698.47*

1966 P •rtldpatlon
Members %

104
177
124
231
229
127
673
299
333
17 1
21 3
281
247
108
115
192
290
77
105
226
238
232
135
97
292
205
118
68
189
196
61
184
391
174
221
163

64
42
44
37
48
35
57

44

61
32
43
54
46
77
34
57
52
50
46
44
33
53
35
55
83
42
64
40
49
67
49
40
54
64
64
54
475 61
128 58
51 30
325 58
171 46
49 27
112 41
60 44
175 43
151 51
59 39
152 25
139 35
270 53
63 33
282 45
96 51
126 53
243 44
187 53
281 53
240 39

,.,

Contrlb.
M-ber

4.10
5.21
3.33
3.00
4.45
2.26
4.80
4.02
4.89
2.07
5.98
4.24
4.10
2.03
2.15
3.68
4.14
2.08
6.89
2.72
2.04
4.98
2.0S
3.13
4.84
3.33
3.18
3.84
3.93
4.58
4.28
2.63
3.31
3.67
5.85
4.29

4.52
5.05
2.30
3.53
2.54
1.84
2.01
1.25
2.00
4.94
2.29
1.98
1.86
3.00
2.28
2.42
2.72
2.65
3.91
3.89

4.22

2.77

...

.........,.

Cont rib.

lodp

1966
. . .benhlp

Mount Olive .......... 908
El Segundo............ 479
Joppa ............ ..........
99
Benj. Franklin .... 275
Cupertino .............. 258
Sunnyvale ............ 503
Palms ...................... 470
Calmenga .............. 529
Argonne ................ 311
Vermont Square .. 397
Taft ........................ 287
Mount Vernon...... 177
La Jolla .................. 347
Euclid .................... 357
Ionic ........................ 1,261
Piedmont .............. 229
Sunrise .................. 256
Bellflower ....... ....... 671
Catalina Island .... 134
525 Geo. Washington.. 384
526 Bay City ................ 409
238
527 Covenant
528 Beverly H ills ........ 522
529 Loyalty .................. 735
530 Sun Garde n .......... 531
531 Alexandria ............ 17 4
532 Smyrna .................. 214
533 Azure ...................... 420
534 Forest Hill ............ 193
535 Alexander
Hamilton .......... 278
537 Utopia ..................... 548
538 Ascot ...................... 323
539 Belvedere .............. 184
540 Queen Beach ........ 183
541 Henry Morse
Stephens ............ 288
542 North Hollywood.. 1,002
543 Signal .................... 538
544 Glendale ................ 788
545 Veritas-Jonatha n .. 322
546 San Gabriel .......... 595
547 Arca dia .................. 621
548 Triangle ................ 31 8
549 Justice .................... 377
256
551 Lakeshore
552 Semper Vi.rens .... 331
554 Educator ................ 382
555 White P ine............ 104
556 Fairfax .................. 496
557 Hermosa ................ 420
558 P oint Firmin ........ 327
559 Craftsmen ............ 326
560 Plymouth
384
561 East San Diego...... 900
562 Pyramid ................ 302
563 South Park ............ 376
G64 Foothill .................. 1,003

506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524

125

CAl.IPO~N I A

1966 Partlelp1tlon
Mamben %

1965
Contrlb.

1966
Cont rib.

3,720.90*
1,649.31.
172.00
714.36•
581.00·
606.00
1,356.49*
3,527 .23°
657.00*
1,607.28*
584.71
375.50*
755.58•
1,271.89.
3,919.92*
1,147.50•
849.35•
2,251.80*
275.00*
3,113.50.
1,041.00*
602.28*
2,264.97*
3,815.50°
1,648.27*
483.50*
503.25*
1,150.81.
511.36*

3,883.25*
1,509.24*
299.oo•
981.25·
686.50•
9 40.00
1,556.92•
3,527.50*
360.00
1,802.64*
790.81*
357.50*
284.00
1,146.59*
4,310.38*
1,104.00*
1,03 6.72*
3,054.90*
229.45
1,156.50*
1,297.50*
818.62*
2,382.11 *
4,048.37°
1,580.69*
354.50*
467.50*
1,406.69*
517.50*

452
249
51
88
94
156
207
479
42
18 4
113
71
50
138
595
100
140
288
42
204
220
80
303
457
209
52
76
235
105

50
52
52
32
36
31
44
91
14
46
39
40
14
39
47
44
55
43
31
53
54
34
58
62
39
30
36
56
54

4.27
3.15
3.02
3.56
2.66
1.86
3.31
6.66
1.15
4.54
2.75
2.01
.81
3. 21
3.41
4.82
4.04
4.55
1.71
3.01
3.17
3.43
4.56
5.50
2.97
2.03
2.18
3.34
2.68

1,053.30*
2,333.53·
1,635.01 *
752.09*
906.28*

1,058.91 *
2,172.71*
1,658.99°
823.66*
1,1 01.52°

133

48

3,80
3.96
5.13
4.47
6.01

780.50*
4,536.47*
2,247.43*
2,855.35*
990.50*
2,707. 10•
2.915.31*
1.838.10*
1,225.28·
782.44•
1,125.02•
770.00*
315.oo•
1,209.55*
895.35*
1,208.79*
1,225.61 *
1,565.00*
2,005.50*
998.56*
1,275.73*
2,273.29•

864.00°
5,804.75*
2,387.40*
3,019.99*
972. 96°
2,685.67°
2, 584.45*
1,932.99*
1,402.00*
798.00*
l ,101.97*
788.§0*
318.oo•
1,449.96*
1,181.51.
1,068.34*
1,264.04*
1,449.50*
2,250.94*
816.oo•
1,497.04*
2,415.25*

102
642
354
462
195
358
286
278
197
128
196
157
60
313
167

241 44
144 45
74 40
122 67
35
64
66
59
61
60
46
87
52
50
59
41
58
63

40

151 46
174 53

180 47
433 48
93 31

164 44
464

46

Member

3.00
5.79
4.43
3.83
3.02
4.51
4.16
6.07
3.71
3.11
3.32
2.06

3.05
2.92
2.81
3.26
3.87
3.77
2.50
2.70
3.98
2.40

126

No.

565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578
579
580
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622

PROCEEDINGS OF T H E

1966

Lodre
Membership
West Adams.......... 322
J ames A. Garfield 225
Searchlight .......... 428
P ark Boulevard .. 410
Chat eau Thierry .. 339
Military Service .. 291
Francis K.
Shattuck ............ 204
James Madison .... 319
Hillcrest ................ 68
S. W. Hackett........ 580
Fort Crook ............ 222
El Cajon Valley.... 606
Sunnyside .............. 376
Progressive .......... 470
Warren G. Harding 669
Sa nta Mar ia .......... 129
Security ................ 398
Rialto ...................... 338
Wasco .................... 326
Harding ................ 304
Manchester
320
Garden Grove ...... 470
Valley Forge ........ 413
El Sereno .............. 420
Kauai ...................... 117
Compass ·······-······· 341
Escalon .................. 159
Tujunga ................ 366
All States .............. 534
Service .................. 890
Alexander Gra ham
Bell ............... ....... 262
Guardian .............. 959
P earl Harbor ........ 634
Carmelita .............. 345
Lynwood ................ 563
Grizzly .................. 121
Melrose .................. 256
Dimond .................. 257
Jubilee .................. 430
Glasse l Park ........ 389
Sojourner .............. 319
Gr anada ................ 757
Provident .............. 509
Elmhurst ................ 272
Canoga .................. 485
Temple City .......... 536
Three P illars ···-··· 460
Larchmont ·······-··· 365
H em et .................... 308
R. E. Dolley............ 252
Big Bear ................ 167
Southland .............. 371
Neptune ................ 312
Point Loma .......... 701
The Gardens ........ 517
Atwater ···-······-··· 373

1966

127

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1966 Participation

1965
Contrlb.

Contrlb.

Momber1

%

1,054.04*
1,611.10*
1,124.82•
992.00·
951.00·
909.00·

1,197.40•
2,367.07•
971.56•
1,245.50•
123.50•
910.32*

104
148
140
193
231
123

664.75*
1,208.33*
185.39*
1,931.19•
869.54•
1,900.84•
1,183.90*
2,348.13*
2,170.31 •
814.50*
1,279.83•
1,034.16 ..
882.49•
986.32•
1,220.59*
2,054.71•
1,337.26 •
1,370.93*
499.50•
1,245.52*
93.50
1,366.66•
2,139.99•
3,698.89•

665.00·
1,317.89•
160.oo•
2,376.65•
473.50•
2,087.59•
1,444.53*
2,526. 03•
1,825.85•
856.20•
1,475.98•
1,057.61 •
962. 29*
1,065.18•
998.18•
1,819.08•
1,719.17•
1,439.17*
525.25·
1,338.52*
330.50•
1,524.63•
2,143.40•
3,794.95•

152
137
47
301
11 8
282
177
290
363
86
219
162
179
117
114
233
224
203
71
243
65
233
317
596

1,819.62•
4,857.92*
2,321.oo•
1,861.52•
3,225.83•
446.25•
1,090.41 *
884.12•
1,519.67•
1,353.20•
874.10*
2,043.18•
1,865.50•
709.oo•
2,074.12•
2,399.51 *
1,441.93•
1,594.25*
1,276.50•
1,132.75•
532.oo•
1,204.65*
716.02•
1,170.25
1,470.41 •
2,095.65•

1,786. 25•
5,096.83•
2,175.50•
2,160.46•
3,135.25·
342.00•
1,006.46•
10,878.00*
1,500.20•
1,320.92•
1,061.36*
2,002.97*
1,926. oo•
763.50•
2,089.37*
2,612.34*
1,387.40•
1,403.82*
1,487.90•
1,132.71 •
481.00*
1,822.31 *
1,077.63•
1,713.50•
2,494.78*
1,892.63*

•-•re
Contrlb.

a ..rar•
Contrlb.
Per
Member

llo-

32
66
33
47
68
42

3.71
10.52
2.27
3.03
2.13
3.12

75
43
69
52
53
47
47
62
54
67
55
48
55
38
36
50
54
48
61
71
41
64
59
67

3.25
4.13
2.35
4.09
2.13
3.44
3.84
5.37
2.72
6.63
3.70
3.12
2.95
3.50
3.11
3.87
4.16
3.42
4.48
3.92
2.07
4.16
4.01
4.26

145 55
749 78
305 48
223 65
404 72
84 69
148 58
138 54
218 51
235 60
109 34
297 39
298 59
114 42
266 55
295 55
243 53
129 35
233 76
256 100
73 44
217 58
107 34
282 40
286 55
231 62

6.81
5.31
3.43
6.26
5.56
2.82
3.93
42.32
3.48
3.39
3.32
2.64
3.78
2.80
4.30
4.87
3.01
3.84
4.83
4.49
2.88
4.91
3.45
2.44
4.82
5.07

623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682

lode•

1966

1965

Membership

Contrlb.

1966
Cont rib.

7,966.03•
409.00
1,842.60*
2,138.40•
1,131.61 •
732.08•
1,221.17•
800.5o•
735_33•
1,709.55·
1,748.34•
1,096.00·
2,370.76•
916.74•
2,160.41 •
569.25•
2,968.oo•
803.93*
1,940.99*
1,768.04•
1,631.73•
1,155.27•
858.37•
2,219.14•
2,516.41 •
1,232.65*
1,575.50•
1,077.25*
2,255.86•
1,409.76'
1,258.99•
2,713.54*
1,053.oo•
1,685.32*
588.90•
1,191.26•
1,336.78•
1,607.44*
1,934.00·
1,060.05*
296.00*
3,530.78*
1,568.44*
816.00*
839.75*
3,365.48•
413.oo•
871.28•
1,156.25*
1,576.43*
1,372.oo•
1,333.90"
1,614.71 •
1,730.62•
425.50•
535.75•
788.oo•
775.08

7,485.38*
549.50•
1,768.46•
2,409.64*
1,050.29*
1,033.60*
1,269.87•
785.oo•
965.60•
2,008.11•
2,332.95•
940.79•
2,391.72•
1,138.70•
2,120.04*
269.50
3,153.51 •
847.00*
1,813.89*
1,588.64•
1,422.62•
1,176.39*
488.23•
2,442.49•
2,701.04•
1,282.36.
1,015.57•
1,262.50*
2,141.95*
1,222.64•
1,341.oo•
3,371.73•
1,345.69•
1,622.30•
791.00*
986.71 *
1,587.06•
1,357.73•
2,529. 19*
1,083.21 •
131.50
3,401.26*
1,736.77*
906.59*
1,033.25*
3,541.99*
330.00•
492.00*
1,226.85*
1,552.14*
1,105.99•
1,161.00·
1,467.68*
1,828.60•
123.50
583.50•
375.oo•
1,474.00*

Menorah ................ 1,238
Fortitude .............. 220
Angeles Mesa ...... 672
Chula Vista .......... 709
Lamanda Park .... 314
Truth ...................... 240
Fairview ................ 288
Ingleside ................ 202
Benevolence ........ 255
Normal He ights .. 815
Poinsettia .............. 750
Victorville ............ 309
Riverside
662
John Marshall ...... 279
Palisade s ................ 414
Indian Rock .......... 179
Composite ............ 752
James A. Foshay.. 207
La Cum bre ............ 342
Alta Loma ............ 372
Lomita.................... 386
A. F. E. Irwin........ 252
Metropolitan ........ 181
Hawthorne ............ 575
Damascus .............. 744
Florence ................ 383
La Brea .................. 243
Menlo Park .......... 347
Crescenta Valley .. 643
Fontana .................. 396
Jordan .................... 404
Monte Vista . .......... 826
Citr ol ...................... 266
John D. Spreckels 656
Livingston
207
La Ha br a .............. 298
Ba ldwin Park ...... 363
Malta ...................... 255
H~I'.rY Knox .......... 390
01a1 ........................ 189
Kaweah .................. 139
Reseda .................... 900
Meridian ................ 517
San Gorgonio ...... 267
John P . J arman.... 319
Greenleaf .............. 899
San Clemente ...... 163
Laguna Beach ...... 201
Far West ................ 343
Los Cerritos .......... 548
Modesto ................ 545
Willow Glen .......... 406
Liberal Arts .......... 441
Altadena ................ 507
Canby Cross ........ 131
Carmel .................... 258
Dos Palos .............. 165
Barstow •................. 481

1966 Participation
Memben %

649
89
649
398
148
123
137
125
186
331
313
195
398
145
216
43
466
90
216
142
179
159
87
368
357
169
118
220
266
112
196
428
169
259
109
211
148
93
213
84
30
417
261
158
160
712
81
89
251
319
157
194
243
261
38
89
117
213

52
40
97
56
47
51
48
62
73
41
42
63
60
52
52
24
62
43
63
38
46
63
48
64
48
44
49
63
41
28
49
52
64
39
53
71
41
36
55
44
22
46
50
59
50
79
50
44
73
58
29
48
55
51
29
34
71
44

P.r
Member

6-°4

2.49
2.63
3.39
3.34
4.30
4.40
3.88
3.78
2.46
3.11
3.04
3.61
4.08
5.12
1.50
4.19
4.09
5.30
4.27
3.68
4.66
2.69
4.24
3.63
3.34
4.17
3.63
3.33
3.08
3.31
4.08
5.05
2.47
3.82
3.31
4.37
5.32
6.48
5.73
.94
3.77
3.35
3.39
3.23
3.93
2.02
2.44
3.57
2.83
2.02
2.85
3.32
3.60
.94
2.26
2.27
3.06

128

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

129

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

._..,.

No.

lodr•

1966
•mt.enhlp

683 Redwood Empire.. 122
684 Trona ...................... 165
685 San Marino .......... 475
686 Albany ...................... 216
687 Vista
352
688 Oil dale·:::::::::::::::::::: 292
689 Pohona
92
690 San Carlo~··:::::::::::: 478
691 Indian Wells
Valley ................. 461
692 Travelers
206
693 Palm Spring~·:::::::: 289
694 San Antonio .......... 282
695 Meudell .................. 225
696 Crossroads
351
697 Saint Elmo:::::::::::: 288
698 Wm. D. Stephens .. 196
699 Bixby Knolls ........ 408
700 Ponderosa .............. 386
701 Santa Ynez
Valley ................ 161
702 Rosemead .............. 256
703 Westchester .......... 482
704 Orinda .................... 277
705 El Cerrito .............. 226
706 Hunters Point
Naval .................. 224
707 Lake Tahoe .......... 106
708 Seafaring .............. 545
709 Lorenzo .................. 377
710 Anacapa ................ 281
711 Rim of the World .. 193
712 Los Altos .............. 247
713 Castro Valley ...... 349
714 Blue Lakes ............ 245
715 Magnolia Park .... 346
716 Belmont Shore .... 379
717 Wayfarer ............... 194
718 San Lorenzo
Valley ····-····-······ 113
719 Estero ------- ~ ---· ·· · ···· 165
720 Mineral King ........ 121
721 Home ...................... 597
722 George E. Tutt... ... 195
723 Acalanes ................ 203
724 San Ramon
Valley ................ 165
725 Saint John's .......... 274
726 Yucaipa .................. 240
727 Verdugo Hills ...... 108
728 Lakewood ....... ....... 290
729 Centennial ............ 167
730 Polaris .................... 199
731 Two Rivers .......... 198
732 San Juan ................ 242
733 Golden Empire .... 173
734 Kit Carson ............ 208
735 Oasis of Mara........ 144

1965

1966 Partklp1tlon
Memben %

........,.,.,
Contrlb.

Contrlb.

1966
Contrlb.

421.00·
539.00°
2.761.67°
533.45°
782.94•
1,048.00°
163.00
1,494.95°

537.72•
655.50•
2,744.12°
446.25°
865.02°
1,250.50°
238.00°
1,499.04°

72
110
344
96
165
244
51
253

59
67
72
44
47
84
55
53

4.40
3.97
5.77
2.06
2.45
4.30
2_58
3.13

1,075.25°
577.25°
1,571.33•
922,78°
1,220.43°
1,275.00°
1,179.50°
693.oo•
2,006.15°
966.45°

1,262.08•
698.50°
938.71°
1,476.63°
937.01°
1,400.00°
1,400.00°
1,154.50*
2,540.91°
818.00°

258
108
133
195
184
283
167
144
347
208

56
52
46
69
82
81
58
73
85
54

2.73
3.39
3.24
5.23
4.16
3.98
4.86
5.89
6,22
2.11

506.oo•
930.31°
1,755.22°
845.oo•
703.47°

589.75*
1,370.56°
1,820.57°
822.50°
685.oo•

130 81
187 73
267 55
154 56
120 53

3.66
5.35
3.77
2.96
3.03

938.00°
417.50•
1,710.44°
1,414.65°
1,307.92*
671.94*
830.50*
1,626.10°
110.00•
1,274.05•
1,537.07*
578.41°

1,010.00•
520.81°
1,694.89°
1,422.24*
1,902.23°
719.oo•
833.oo•
1,667.oo•
755.50°
1,531.96°
1,617.88°
452.75°

180
56
278
279
267
137
131
311
174
190
190
44

80
53
51
74
95
71
53
89
71
55
50
23

4.50
4.91
3.10
3.77
6.76
3.72
3.37
4.77
3.08
4.42
4.26
2.33

332.00•
510.00•
484.05*
1,682.49°
572.50*
796.50*

387.00°
610.53°
309.00·
1,989.68°
657.oo•
615.45°

99
97
38
315
113
84

88
59
31
53
58
41

3.42
3.70
2.55
3.33
3.36
3.03

495.50*
793.oo•
504.50°
671.86*
1,203.39°
971.41 *
769.75°
904.45*
835.75•
1,100.00·
1,144.28*
288.50°

643.00°
920.00•
840.98·
820.37•
1,147.24°
847.82*
871.25°
859.59*
887.00°
1,101.50°
599.50"
339.50*

73 44
148 54
161 67
115 100
164 57
114 68
124 62
116 59
123 51
142 82
111 53
144 100

3.89
3.35
3.50
7.59
3.95
5.07
4.37
4.34
3.66
6.36
2.88
2.35

....p

....
736
737
738
739
740
741
742
743
744
745
746
747
748
749
750
751
752
753
754
755
756
757
758
759
760
761
762
763
764
765
766
767
768
769
770
771
772
773
774
775
776
777
778
779
780
781
782
703
784
785
786
787
788
789
790

Lodp

19641
Mtmberslllp

Lemon Grove ...... 479
Hillsborough
194
Arvin ...................... 133
La Canada ............ 169
Opportunity .......... 232
Tyre ........................ 282
Morningside Park 194
Oakwood
105
San Leandro ........ 220
Peninsula
167
Soquel .................... 186
ClaudeH.
Morrison ............ 150
Highland ................ 222
Merced -------·-·----···· 175
Mother Colony .... 183
Hamilton
163
Luther Burbank .. 219
Lawndale .............. 228
San Pablo .............. 144
Golden Bowl ........ 197
Clayton Valley .... 299
Channel ·······-------·· 133
West Covina ........ 214
El Rancho .............. 239
Lakeside ................ 131
Josiah W. Roller .. 204
Coastside ·----------··· 147
Arabic .................... 192
Heritage ------------···· 184
Dana R. Weller. ..... 143
Jam es H. Kew ...... 158
Wm. Rhodes
Hervey -----------··· 159
Zenith .................... 297
257
Palmdale
Lake Chabot ........ 162
Mission Bay .......... 231
Avenal .................... 62
Tejon ...................... 223
Waikiki .................. 173
San Dieguito ........ 219
East Whittier ........ 230
Pinnacle ................ 56
La Mirada ............ 197
Five Points .......... 118
Riviera ................... 161
Rolling Hills ........ 137
Silverado ................ 141
Mojave ·········--·--···· 92
Leland Stanfor d .. 170
Paramount ............ 141
Rio Linda .............. 119
Westminster .......... 125
Sierra ...................... 88
Oak Plains ............ 230
Granada Hills ...... 163

1965
Contrlb.

1968
Contrlb.

1,178.55•
967.oo•
539.52•
958.51°
1,447.56.
935.09°
811.25°
683.72°
867.oo•
694.00•
550.00•

1,928.46°
1,219.50°
568.05°
827.61°
1,812.22°
1,209.45°
796.00°
489.00°
824.16°
870.00°
599.50°

313.50°
644.49°
550.00°
376.60°
363.50•
680,00°
940.46°
331.75°
1,193.41°
1,053.30°
431.oo•
1,110.49°
662.88°
525.oo•
2,208.00•
583,75•
637.50•
814.96°
796.60*
992.32*
794.00°
1,803,80°
1,199.61°
462.50°
853.75•
268,64°
975.31°
849.91 *
675.00°
986.28*
191.50*
1,323.00*
792.46•
1,293.14°
1,058.75°
303.50°
428.25°
554.00*
577.92°
1,277.83*
396.28°
176.00*
905.75°
1.088.50*

1966 P1rtlclp.tlon

...,

Contrlb.

lllttnben %

lllltmber

211
136
86
90
148
215
155
80
133
117
116

44
70
65
53
64
76
80
76
60
70
62

4.02
6.28
4.27
4.89
7.81
4.28
4.10
4.65
3.74
5.20
3.22

374.00°
730.15•
552.50°
368.oo•
476.16°
676.32°
653.23°
321.00•
1,065.38°
1,059.50°
461.50°
808.84°
1,222.92°
814.00°
1,097.oo•
589.oo•
802.75°
835.29°
1,007.44°
1,027.27°

86
123
111
59
84
155
107
48
128
146
69
76
157
117
116
103
139
127
130
116

57
55
63
32
52
71
47
33
65
49
52
36
66
89
57
70
72
69
91
73

2.49
3.28
3.15
2.01
2.92
3.08
2.86
2.27
5.40
3.54
3.46
3.77
5.11
6.21
5.37
4.00
4.18
4.53
7.04
6.50

1,001.57°
1,701.76°
989.05°
564.oo•
980.75°
188.09°
1,028.96*
798.oo•
315.50
1,213.12*
203.50°
1,037.97°
894.64°
1,439.87*
1,264.40°
407.50°
277.00*
566.50°
846.oo•
927.65*
385.97°
234.50°
1,105.00°
1,230.03°

100 63
187 63
124 48
115 71
154 67
24 39
196 88
124 72
52 24
179 78
46 82
142 72
82 69
161 100
97 71
87 62
55 60
120 71
117 83
100 84
80 64
37 42
142 62
138 85

6.29
5.72
3.84
3.48
4.24
3.03
4.61
4.61
1.44
5.29
3.63
5.26
7.58
8.94
9.22
2.89
3.01
3.33
6.00
7.79
3,08
2.66
4..80
7.54

130

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A-•c•

No.

1966
Membership

lodge

Gen. Henry H.
Arnold·----·-······--· 145
77
792 Millbrae ·---··· ---······
96
793 Maya ---·----·-·········-··
794 Mt. Wilson ............ 163
795 American River .. 176
796 Golden Valley ...... 171
797 Tila Pass········----··-- 126
798 Ashland .................. 112
92
799 Clairemont Mesa ..
800 Rio Hondo ······----·· 124
98
801 Koolau ······-----····· ··
802 Yucca Valley ........ 140
74
803 The Gabilan ..........
70
804 Moreno Valley ....
805 Camellia -·-·-·-------·-· 132
806 Simi Valley ····----·· 107
807 Conejo Valley·---·-- 118
808 Scepter .................. 123
95
809 Los Alamitos -----···
82
810 Victoria Palms ·--·
811 Woodland Hills .... 142
812 Triad ······················ 94
96
813 Old West-·------·-·····814 P laza de Los
Angeles -··-------··-- 75
89
815 Mount Baldy --······
67
816 Wm. B. Ogden______
44
817 Manhattan ············
818 Great Lights ----··-· 102
819 Frank S. Land...... 118
85
820 Mar Vista -·--····-----41
U.D. Gateway·-----------····
51
U.D. Boron
56
U.D. Maccabee -··--··--·····
No. Calif. Research
El Camino Research
Central Calif.
Research ----······-·
So. Calif. Research 133

791

1966
Contrib.

1966 Participation
Members %

Contrib.
Per
Member

701.95•
262.50•
275.46•
785.80•
507.00*
447.23*
1,519.49*
332.oo•
255.50•
1,219.39*
300.00*
350.00*
198.00•
198.13*
1,119.45·
268.00*
457.50*
616.75*
582.43•
303.50*
564.31 •
401.71*
606.47•

450.00•
276.oo•
314.87•
597 .01 •
723.65*
829.10•
1,704.48.
319_50•
306.50•
1,719.33*
370.00•
431. 50 *
163.oo•
188.00*
945.35*
368.50*
391.75*
597.50*
338.47*
362.57*
627.56*
739.14*
8~3.95.

90 62
51 66
62 65
90 55
97 55
119 70
141 100
66 59
58 63
118 95
59 60
72 51
34 46
47 67
93 70
77 72
79 67
96 78
60 63
66 80
112 79
96 100
99 100

3.10
3.58
3.27
3.66
4.11
4.84
13.52
2.85
3.33
13.86
3_77
3.08
2.20
2.68
7.16
3.44
3.31
4.85
3.56
4.42
4.41
7.86
8.89

407.50*
242.18*
348.57*
150.50•
246.45*
209_00•
169.39*

532.50*
368.93•
268.87•
114.50*
303.00*
499.57*
530.64*
32.00
211.50*
624.00*

74 99
62 70
30 45
32 73
54 53
80 68
131 100
6 15
53 100
62 100

7.10
4.14
4.01
2.60
2.97
4.23
6.24
.78
4.14
11.14

23,93

369.00

88

2.77

1965
Contrlb.

.......... HPPO••••••••

66

Overall Average Contribution 7.22
GRAND TOTAL

243572

846,895.50

904,437.59

125272

131

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETIREMENT PLAN
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In 1954, the Retirement Pension Plan was inaugurated for the employees of the Masonic Homes of California , the Grand Lodge of California and affiliates, to provide a retirement life income for employees
in addition to Social Security benefits, upon attaining the age of sixtyfive (65).
The plan had certain requirements to be eligible for membership. The
employee must have been in our employ for a period of two years and
attained the age of thirty ( 30) years.
In 1964, the original plan was amended to change conditions for
early retirement from age fifty-five ( 55) plus twenty ( 20 ) years of
service to age fifty-five ( 55) and fifteen ( 15) years of service.
As of December 31, 1965, the auditors report indicated total accrued
assets for both Masonic Homes and Grand Lodge and componen t
organizations of $824 .074. up from $744,210 last year. Of the total.
$505.383 is attribu table to Masonic Homes and $318,691 is attributable
to the Grand Lodge and component organizations.
Since August 8, 1966 the Plan has been improved to recalculate
pension credits for all service to D ecember 31. 1965, based on the average salary in the period from January 1, 1961 to December 31. 1965 .
When the Plan was ins talled 11 years ago, the benefit for service
prior to the effective date of the Plan was based on the salary a s of the
effective date and was 1Yi7o of s uch salary for each year of credited
service prior to t,he effective date. For credited service after the effective
date, pension credits are based on 2 % of the covered salary earned in
each year. The recompu tation of credits to December 31. 1965, has been
based on the same 1Yz % for each year of prior service and 2 % for each
year of current service, but has been applied to the average salary in
the years 1961 through 1965.
The effect of the recomputation is to increase the accrued credits for
those employees who have more than five years of credited service. Also
for those employees who will retire in the near fu ture, the recomputation
will put their pensions largely on a final salary basis rather than on
career average salary.
Consideration has also been given to bringing our present Retirement Plan more nearly in line with pension plans currently being adopted by allowing employees pension credits for the two ( 2) year w aiting
period. It is pointed out that the current two yea r waiting period would
be required, but once the employee established employment beyond that
point and reaches the age of retirement, he would receive pension credits fro m the original da te of employment.
The Committee also took under consideration the one employee currently under the plan w ho was employed prior to reaching the age

PROCl!EO INGS OP THI!

GRAND LODGI! OP CALIFOR NIA

thirty. The Commi ttee approve d that such an employee and future employees would be granted pension credits from date of employ ment,
provide d they qualify under the Pension Plan.
The Commi ttee also adopted a policy of notifyin g employees, from
time to time, as to the value of their pension credits, based on their contributio ns. This would include: ( 1) the total of said employee contribu tions to date: ( 2) interest earned to date; ( 3) such other informa tion as
the Commi ttee may from time to time determi ne.
At the present time one hundred eleven ( 111 ) employees are covered by the Plan. The employees contribu te to the Plan 3% of their
regular annual salary, and the employ er contribu tes an amount to make
the Plan actuaria lly sound. During the year 1965-66 the employees contributed $15.812.01; the employ er contribu ted $40,199.02: which is just
under a 3 to 1 ratio.
The Retirem ent Plan Commi ttee has conside red the status of employees already on retireme nt, but have deferre d making a firm recommendat ion pending further study. The number of retired employees has
increase d from twenty two ( 22) to twenty five ( 25).
The Commi ttee adopted the policy that the years of continu ous service be reduced from twenty ( 20) years to fifteen ( 15) years. The interest earned on employ ee deposits was increase d from 2Yi% to 3Yi%
per annum, effective with Octobe r 1, 1966.
Respect fully submitt ed.
L. HAROLD ANDERS ON Chairman

Perusal and analysis of these statistic s will clearly demons trate the
tremend ous work being done by these twenty Boards of Relief, and will
also clearly emphas ize the need in our jurisdic tion for Boards of Relief.
Over the past several years the Board of Control has endeavo red to
persuad e -~fasters and Warden s of Lodges in thickly populat ed areas to
form add1t1o~~I Boar~s of Relief so that relief to our sojourn ing Brethre n
may be admm1stered m a more expedie nt and uniform manner.
The Board of Control holds three meeting s annuall y. one in Souther n
Californ ia in January , one in the Bay Area in May, and one at the Annu~l Commu nication in San Francis co in Octobe r. At these
meeting s
which are attende d by the Secreta ries of the various Boards of Relief
their Officers and Represe ntatives , problem s and program s are discusse d
so that the handlin g of relief problem s for Sojourn ers will be unified
through out the jurisdic tion.
The Board of Control is very happy to report that all twenty of our
Boards of Relief have adminis tered their function s in a commendable
manner and no criticism has been received of their work, and that all
ca_ses where a ~eed was requeste d . relief was availabl e without delay. It
might be mention ed that relief as defined in this report covers more
than n_ionet~ry problems. It covers many forms of investig ations among
the soi~u~mng_Masons when request ed by their Lodges. A great amount
of admm1strahve work involved when the family of a decease d Sojourner ~equests a Masoni c funeral service. and the conduct ing of
funerals m a great number of cases. In addition , many Boards of Relief
also operate Blood Banks.
For the ~a~t several years. the Board of Control has kept a watchfu l
eye on the rismg cost of operatin g Employ ment Bureaus . and has also
been concern ed with the necessit y thereof. in view of the fact that State
and local governm ents now operate free employ ment bureaus , and
further, t~~t many of the private employ ment bureaus now provide job
oppo_rtu~1t1es at no cost to applican t. After careful evaluati
on , and fully
cons1dermg that our recomm endatio n may appear a bit drastic to the
Grand Lodge image in Californ ia, the Board of Control is recommending
to ~e incoming Grand Master that all Employ ment Bureaus be discontmu ed at the close of the Masoni c year, June 30, 1967.
11: our report to the Committee on Finance we have requested that
sufficient funds be provide d to carry out this recommendation.
. We, the members of the Board of Control . feel deeply indebte d and
indeed very grateful _for the time, advice and counsel so graciou sly given
by our Most Worshi pful Myron E. Smith, Grand Master of Masons in
Californ ia.
Al~o to Right ':Vorsh ipful Laurenc e E. Dayton , Deputy Grand
Master; Right Worshi pful John F. Porter, Senior Grand Warden ; Right

132

Referre d to Commi ttee on Finance .
REPO RT OF BOAR D OF CONT ROL

To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Board of Control herewit h present s its annual report, incorpo rating therein the activities of our Boards of Relief and Employ ment Bureaus. With the addition last year of a new Board of Relief in Souther n
Alamed a County . there are now twenty Boards of Relief in this jurisdic tion, five of which also operate Employ ment Bureaus .
During the past Masoni c year, these Boards of Relief. through the
secretar ies and various committees . have perform ed the following functions :
Advanc ed for Relief... ......................... ................ $21.460.19
Funeral s conduct ed.............................................. 1,079
Total calls made ..................................----··········· 30,902
Calls on the siclc...... .............................................. 10. 169
Investig ations conduct ed .................................... 2,430
Relief calls made.................................................. 9,390
Miscell aneous made ............................................ 9.041

133

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp. Junior Grand Warden, for their ever
willing assistance and interest in the future of this Board.

The poet, Edwin Markham, put it this way:
"We are all blind until we see. that in the human plan
Nothing is worth the making , if it does not make the man.
Why build these cities glorious, if ma n unbuilded goes?
In vain we build the world, unless the builder also grows."
Your Trustees, as proud as they may be of the completion of the
Temple and that final payment on its financial obligation has been met,
are cognizant that all this is but a means to an end and that unless the
builder also grows the heritage of freedom may not be continued.
Since the last Annual Communication, fifty-five ( 55) Lodges have
achieved Merit Roll status. Of our 710 Lodges, only 55 have yet to attain
the goal.
We wish to congratulate Districts 110, 112, 117, 204, 228, 302, 306,
308,336,340,3 46.352, 388.392,426, 540, 552. 602. 605, 606, 607, 610,
618 and 620 on becoming HONOR DISTRICTS during the past year,
as well as all of the Lodges in those Inspectoral Districts which became
Merit Roll Lodges.
. U~der the highly competent and devoted direction of the Temple
Bmldmg Manager, Brother George Gavin, the income for the fiscal
year ended June 30 showed an increase over the previous year of more
th~~ .$11.000 to~ record $173,000. Building expenses including wages,
utJl1t1es and s~rv1ces, insurance and taxes decreased more than $24,000
from the previous year, so that the operating profit stood in excess of
$42,000. Interest on loans, offset by interest received on savings accounts. with a small reserve for replacements gave a final net income
for the year of $34,294.
Since. the last Communicatio n a first aid room has been provided
and eqmpped. The remaining acoustical problems have been dissipa.t:d according to the best knowledge available by the installation of
add1~1~nal s~ea~ers and improvements on the amplification system.
Add1t1onal hghtmg was added to the parking garage.
Eight years of experience in providing the finest auditorium and exhibit space available in San Francisco to hundreds of thousands of
visitors, guests. and participants have taught your Trustees many things.
More than 160 concerts, musical programs, and conventions have been
staged in the auditorium during the past four years. The exhibit hall has
been used on 35 occasions for examination and testing purposes. In the
four years just past more than 70 separate business and product displays
have b~en made by trade and association organizations. Its use has
exemplified the development in the industrial. cultural. and educational
growth of the community and the State. Since 1963 twenty high school
and college graduation ceremonies have been held in the auditorium.
. During the year legal and proper use of the exhibit space was misinterpreted by a commercial organization to the extent that an offer to
sell merchandlse was made in advertising media. Action as subsequently

Respectfully submitted,

Lows H. MAHLER, Chairman
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
CALIFORNI A MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This is the Twelfth Annual Report of the Board of Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple.
At the close of the 1965 Annual Communicatio n of Grand Lodge
the Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple met in Annual
Meeting. The President. Ralph H. Head, reported the election of
Laurence E . Dayton as Deputy Grand Master, John F. Porter as Senior
Grand Warden, and Eugene S. Hopp as Junior Grand Warden. On
proper motion they were duly elected members of the Board of Trustees
as provided in the California Masonic Code.
The Board then proceeded to organize with Ralph H. Head as
President, Samuel I. Jacobs as Vice-President , Paul A . Pflueger, Grand
Treasurer, as Treasurer, and Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master and
Grand Secretary. as Secretary.
The terms of the appointed members of the Board were as follows:
Expiring in 1966, T. Galt Atwood and Chester R. MacPhee; expiring in
1967, Samuel I. Jacobs and Howard H. McKinley; and expiring in 1968
Lyle Patton and Ralph H. Head.
It was revealed by an economist a short time ago that during the
next forty years we will build in this country a second America. By the
year 2000 our population will have increased to more than 340,000.000
and in order to provide for this tremendous growth we must build
64,000,000 new homes and that is as many homes as we have built in
the United States from the time the Constitution was signed up until
the present time.
During the past ten years this Grand Lodge has laid the cornerstone,
has built, and has paid for the most beautiful and useful Grand Lodge
Masonic Temple in the United States.
We can now pause and ask ourselves the question. "Are we prepared to equip the occupants of these structures erected and yet to be
constructed with certain built-in truths and principles which must be
possessed by the majority if our great heritage of freedom is to be passed
on?"

135

136

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

taken was such that the exhibit hall was not opened to the public, and
public sales which were not permitted by ordinance or by the leasing
rules of the Temple were never consummated.
The incident pointed up to the Trustees the need for the formulation of a complete and comprehensive rent and leasing policy for the
auditorium and exhibit hall. On August 5, 1966. the Trustees adopted
a policy which not only reiterated but clarified the prohibition of the
use of the facilities for merchandising, including the sale on the premises
of any kind of merchandise whether at retail or wholesale. The display
of goods by industrial firms and business associations for exhibit purposes only was permitted. However, a prohibition was added against
meetings of political parties. organizations, and action groups.
Within the structure of the Board of Trustees a Committee on
rentals consisting of three Trustees was appointed to examine the
proposed use of the facilities and to give approval when all requirements
have been met.
Next Wednesda y morning Grand Lodge will meet in special session
for the mortgage burning ceremony. Still another milestone in the life
of the Temple w hich has been dedicated to the Supreme Architect of
the Universe. An unknown author has given us the best possible direction
.. Every mason in the quarry,
Every builder on the shore.
E very chopper in the forest.
Every raftsman at the oar.
Hewing wood and drawing water.
Splitting stones and cleaving sod.
All the dusty ranks of labor,
In the regiment of God.
March together toward His triumph ,
Do the task His hands prepare :
Honest toil is holy service:
Faithful work is praise and prayer."
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH H. HEAD (1968)
President
Officers and Trustees:
SAMUEL I. JACOBS, Vice President ( 1967)
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treas urer
EDWARD H. S1EMS, Secretary
LAURENCE E. DAYTON, Deputy Grand Master
JoHN F. PORTER, Senior Grand Warden
EUGENE S. HoPP, /unior Grand Warden

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

137

LYLE E. PATION, Trustee ( 1968)
T. GALT ATWOOD. Trustee (1966)
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, Trustee ( 1966)
HOWARD M. McKINLEY. Trustee (1967)
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF THE MANAGER
To the Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple:
Brethren :
The burning of the Temple mortgage, at the Annual Communication
of Grand Lodge this year is heartwarming news for all California and
Hawaii Masons.
After eight years of use this magnificent and stately edifice continues
to be widely accepted as a major cultural center.
TOURS ANO VISITATIONS
Our Temple is open for visitors Monday through Friday. from 8:45
A .M. to 4 :45 P .M .. and we maintain visiting hours on Saturdays and
Sundays, from 12 :00 Noon to 4 :00 P .M. This has enabled many of our
brethren and visitors from other areas to see the Temple. During the
last year more than 3,500 visitors from many lands have signed our
register, and thousands more have come to see and admire. It is an
interesting experience to welcome these visiting brethren and dignitaries,
who are impressed with the unusual beauty and dignity of our facilities.
Among the countries represented in our regis ter are.:
Arabia
Argentina
Aus tralia
Austria
Belgium
Bolivia
Brazil
Canada
Canal Zone
Chile
China
Denmark
El Salvador

England
Ecuador
Finland
France
Germany
Guatemala
Holland
Iceland
India
Iran
Ireland
Isle of Man

Israel
Italy
Japan
Korea
Lebanon
Lichtenstein
Malaysia
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway

Okinawa
Philippines
Puerto Rico
Russia
Scotland
South Africa
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Tasmania
Trinidad
Vietnam
West Germany

Our T our Committee, headed by Inspector Edward Lohmeyer, continues to assist with special groups of DeMolay, Job's Daughters, Rain~
bow for Girls, Blue Lodges and senior citizen groups, etc.
MAINTENANCE ANO IMPROVEMENTS
The continuing effort to make economies and to follow effective operating procedures has enabled us to report a decrease in our operating
expenses in the face of increased costs of labor and materials. Today
the· Temple is functioning smoothly and all facilities are being kept in
first class operating condition.

. PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

We have given our lighting system a general overhau l, extende d our
intercom , made repairs to the stage. added safety rails on our stairs and
made a new entranc e and exit from the second floor balcony to the projection room. Extensi ve changes have been made to the air conditio ning system. We have installed new speaker s in the auditori um. which
further improve the sound. This will make the meeting s and musical s
more enjoyab le.
A First Aid room has been added in the Tiler's room for the benefit
of those attendin g Grand Lodge and other function s. A study is being
complet ed for modern izing and improvi ng our garage lighting .

Moody 's l~vestors held their annual confere nce, and the Americ an
Sali>smaster s Meeting were held here in the Temple .
~r. Erwin D . Canham , Editor- in-Chie f of the Christia
n Science
Momt_or. was guest speaker for the Church es of Christ Scientis t of San
Francis co. Mr. Canham de~ivered his address to an audienc e of 8000
peoolc -3000 filled the A ud1torium and there were 2000 in the Exhibit
H~l~. A second g rou~ of 3000 in the Auditor ium a t a later
matinee were
pnv1leged to hear this outstan ding man. The E xhibit Hall was q ·
d
with
a
clo
ed
· · TV system which transmi
. .
s c1rcu1t
mppe
tted pictures toe the
E _
h1b1t Hall.
x
The Gas and Electric Institute brought Arthur F iedler and the
Sympho ny Orches tra as the cultural attracti on for their convent ion.
The Sal~ation Army held their centenn ial in our Auditor ium with
an outstan ding program featurin g 100 years of service.
. We were privileg ed to have the Annual Meeting of the San Francisco T eachers Institute and the Californ ia Dry Cleaners A ssoc1at1
· ·on.
Each year we have the San Francisco high school graduat ions Five
schools usedTthe Auditor ium and E xhibit Hall for reh earsa 1 d.
an com~encetmhenAt. d~er~ v;ere 2,476 graduat es, and on each o f the
five occas10ns e u 1tortum was filled to capacity . In addition to the re ular
June commencem~n_t exercise s we had two mid-term graduat ions gwith
501 students rece1vmg their diplomas.
. JThe Salvatio n Army Training School graduat ion exercises were held
m ~ne and the _follo~ing day, S unday . they held their baccala ureate
service. The Un,1vers1ty of Californ ia Medica l School also held the·
commen cement ceremo ny in the Temple .
ir
Last year we rep?rted the Ninth Annual Internat ional F ilm Festiva l
was to be presented m our building in October . This was the first FestiCl held under the auspice s of the Greater San Francis co Chamb er f
ommerce._ For the first time this program was a financial success. Th~s
year we will have the Tenth Annual Film F estival to be held Octobe r
20 through ~ 1. 1966. Many film stars and famous director s fro m around
~~ wor~d will ~e present each evening . There will be three films
shown
ai '( with_ a differen t present ation at each perform
ance. A children 's
matinee will be held on the two Saturda ys.
Ar~he F_estival has become a major cultural present ation in the
Bay
and is sponsor ed by many of our most promine nt citizens.

138

IN COME

The building income for the year amount ed to $173,297.00, an increase over the precedi ng year of 6.9o/o.
CULTUR AL CENTER DEVELO PMENT

A Conven tion Center is still being conside red for the South of
Market area. A major hotel is adding another convent ion hall to their
facilities, and the Rockefe ller interest s contem plate building a theatre in
conjunc tion with a develop ment w hich they will sponsor in the Golden
Gatewa y. Improv ements and expansi on of the Opera House are still
being develop ed.
The Greater San Francisco Chambe r of Comme rce and other local
interest s have been success ful in bringing the Americ an Conserv atory
Theatre Group to San Francis co to divide their time with the City of
Chicago . For the present they will occupy the Geary Theatre .
There appears to be an upsurge of cultural develop ment in the Bay
Area.
OCCUPA NCY

W e have maintai ned our rentals through the continu ed develop ment
of concerts , busines s and convent ions. The latter have use for both the
Auditor ium and Exhibit H all. During the year top artists used our Auditorium. They include d two piano recitals by Sviatos lav Richter, the
famous Russian pianist: V an Cliburn , and the 350 voice Salt Lake Mormon Tabern acle Choir.
Also program med, among our famous artists appeari ng in the Temple
were: Woody Allen-M oms Mahley ; Peter. Paul and Mary; Ella Fitzgerald- Duke Ellingto n: Ray Charles and the P .D.Q. Bach.
Our Auditor ium and E xhibit H all are in greater demand by corpora tions for sympos iums and exhibits . An outstan ding meeting was held by
the Internat ional Industri al Confere nce ( Stanfor d Researc h Founda tion). We were favored by the Californ ia Canner s and Grower s Conference, Wester n Coating s Sympos ium, and the State Bar Associa tion. In
March and Novemb er the State Board of Accoun tancy held three days
of examina tion. W estem Air Lines present ed "Pacific Pagean ts,"

139

1

P ROJECTI ON

. We have a ra ther heavy schedul e for the balance of the year and
mto 1967. Septem ber was active, Octobe r is solidly booked and N
this same pattern. Indicati ons are that the
half
an
1 er wkh1ll lbde very product ive. We have contrac ts for addition al
nua stoc o ers meeting s in 1967.

~=~=bfollo':"'s

fi~st

~

140

141

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PUBLIC RELATIONS

one of the finest set of records that this Committee has observed and
they have shown enthusiasm in all their Masonic activities.
The Committee on Charters, therefore. unanimously recommends
that charters be granted and numbers assigned to these Lodges as follows:
Gateway Lodge No. 821, in the City of Seaside, County of Monterey.
Boron Lodge No. 822, in the Town of Boron, County of Kern.
Maccabee Lodge No. 823, in the City of Rosemead, County of
Los Angeles.
There has been referred to the Committee on Charters that portion
of the Report of the Grand Secretary relative to the change of meeting
place of a number of Lodges which are listed and the portion dealing
with the consolidation of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30 and Speranza
ltaliana Lodge No. 219 on July 1. 1966, to be known as Golden Gate
Speranza Lodge No. 30.
The Committee on Charters recommends that the Grand Secretary
be authorized to properly endorse the charters of the several Lodges in
accordance with the details set forth in the Grand Secretary's Report.

We have found it important to keep in close contact with civic and
business leaders. In this way rental leads, suggestions and general
infomation is made possible. We continue as a Director of the San
Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau and the Greater San Francisco Chamber of Commerce Film Festival.
STAPP

The same staff has carried on the work for the past year and, as
previously reported, are dedicated. They have a real pride in being
a part of the Temple and its activities and put forth every effort to preserve the image of the Temple.
The Board of Trustees, members of Grand Lodge, and the brethren
have been very considerate and have given us assistance and cooperation
wherever and whenever needed.
We are grateful for the opportunity to work with, and extend our
appreciation to, all who have responded when the call for assistance
went forth.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE D. GAVIN, Manager

Respectfully submitted,
PHILIP B. STONE, Chairman

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
At the 1965 Communication of Grand Lodge the dispensation of
Gateway Lodge U.D. was continued for the succeeding year. Boron
Lodge U.D. was instituted on November 27, 1965, and Maccabee Lodge
U .D. was instituted on December 15, 1965. All three Lodges have petitioned for charters.
Each of the Lodges has submitted its records for examination and
representatives, accompanied by their Inspectors, have appeared before
the Committee.
The Committee found that in each case the requirements necessary
to qualify for a charter have been met and the records submitted were
satisfactory.
Gateway Lodge U . D., located in the City of Seaside. is especiatly
commended for the progress they have made during the past year under
dispensation. The additional year has enabled them to solve many of
their problems and we believe that this Lodge will be a definite asset to
Masonry in its area.
Boron Lodge U . D ., located in the tow n of Boron on the Mojave
Desert, deserves special mention. This aggressive group of Masons has
constructed a temple which will be deeded to the Lodge free of debt as
soon as the Lodge is constituted.
Maccabee Lodge U.D., located in the City of Rosemead, submitted

Adopted.

THE GEORGE WASHINGTON
MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
It is a pleasure for me to report briefly on the fifty-fifth annual meeting of the George Washington M asonic National Memorial Association
held at the Memorial in Alexandria. Virginia on February 22, 1966.
It was a s:ireat honor for me when I was elected in February, 1962 to
fill the unexpired term of Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson as a
director of the Association. A subsequent term of three years ended this
year and I am pleased to report tha t I was re-elected to serve as a director of the Association for another three-year term, to expire in February,
1969.
My pleasure arises out of this recognition, not to me, but to the
Masons comprising the Grand Lodge of California who have supported
the Memorial from its inception. You will recall from previous reports
that Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler was prominent in the initial
proceedings to establish the Memorial. Other Grand Masters of our
jurisdiction have served as State Representative in developing the financing of the Memorial, and then there was the monumental service
rendered by Lloyd Wilson as a Director and Member of the Executive
Committee of the Memorial Association.

143

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Again I say that the Grand Lodge of California, and its members.
feel a deep interest in the Memorial and what it represents, even thoug h
we a re separated from it by several thousand miles.
First, I would like to comment briefly on the Conference of Grand
Masters of Masons in N orth America which is held annually in conjunction w ith the meeting of the Memorial Association.
California was represented so ably by its Grand Master. Myron E.
Smith; by its Deputy Grand Master, Laurence E. Day ton; and by its
Grand Secretary. Edward H. Siems. These brothers played an important
part in the Conferences of Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries. Past
Grand Master Henry C. Clausen was also present as nn officer of the
Supreme Council of the Southern Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite, and
he saw to it that his fellow Californians were received and welcomed
most heartily at the House of the Temple when those attending the
Conference were guests o f the Supreme Council at a luncheon.
Modesty on the part of the Grand M aster and the Deputy Grand
Master will probably preclude their mentioning that they were received
into practice before the Supreme Court of the United States by the Chief
Justice, Earl Warren, Past Grand Master of this Jurisdiction.
To return to the meeting of the Memorial Association, we convened
at 10:00 A .M . on February 22, 1966 in the Memoria l Building on
Shooters Hill in Alexandria in the presence of those in attendance at
the Grand Masters Conference, together with representatives from concordant and other Masonic Bodies and from numerous M asonic Grand
Lodges from without the boundaries of North America.
From the facts contained in the annual reports which were presented
at the meeting, it is good to be able to report progress, even if not
substantial, in the operations of the Memorial. The Endowment Fund
grows slowly and the funds, invested like ours here in California, are
administered in a wise and prudent manner. Contributions to the operating and maintenance fund have enabled the Board of Directors to step
up maintenance of the property and to begin work on long deferred improvements.
Brethren, in this Memorial you have an asset of much physical value
but a much greater value is that of an intangible nature-a value which
reaches into the hearts and minds of all who come to its doors -for,
surely, inspiration to the heart and mind lies within its portals.
It is inspirational to view the Memorial and its exhibits. It is inspirational to be at the Memorial on the occasion of the annual meeting
and to be in the presence of the Masonic leaders of North America and
of other countries. Mos t of all, though, is to be in the presence of the
spirit of the one to whom the Memorial is dedicated, a brother who attended his Lodge in Alexandria a nd who sat as its first Master, even
while serving as the first President of his country. And there is the
inspiration to be gained from the visit to the home of George W ashing-

ton at nearby Mt. V ernon and to his final resting place there on the
banks of the P otomac. This visit, or pilgrimage, concludes each annual
meeting of the Memoria l Association.
Th.is year, a dream was realized in the dedication of the George
Washington Museum which now occupies the fourth floor of the Memorial. W e are indebted to the Northern and Southern Jurisdictions of
the Supreme Councils of the Scottish Rite for the fu nds which made the
museum a reality.
At the dedication ceremony, special guests included the Sovereign
Grand Commanders of the two Scottish Rite Jurisdictions, the Misses
A~ne and Patty Washington , who contributed valuable family memorabilia to the museum and Sena tor E verett Dirksen, 33rd Degree Mason,
who gave the Dedicatory Address. The Memorial was also presented
with one of the foundation stones removed from the White House when
it was restored and remodelled during Brother H arry Truman's Presidency of the United States. It was noticed by Brother Truman that the
foundation stones which were being removed from the White H ouse
bore the markings of a Master Mason, so he had a sufficient number of
s tones laid aside in order to present one to each Grand Lodge in the
United States.
So, my brethren, I remind you again-this is your Memorial. Visi t it
if you can for you will find the effort most worthwhile.
How important it is that the Masons of this country have a national
memorial or s hrine which attracts people of every race and creed . How
i~p?rta~t. it is that all M<tsons know about it and have a par t in maintammg 1t m a manner creditable to the fraternity.
Particularly ls this memorial most important to all Masons whithersoever dispersed, bearing, as it does , the name of the first citizen of the
land, our distinguished brother, George Washington, Mas ter Mason.

142

Respectfully submitted
Guv B. MIZE, D irector

145

PROCBBDINGS OP THI!

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DISTRIBUTION

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIALISM

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The Committee on Distribution, to which has been referred the Annual Message of the Grand Master and the reports of the Grand Treasurer, the Grand Secretary. the Grand Lecturer and the Trustees of the
Masonic Homes. submits the following report:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Commercialism herewith submits its report for
the year just ending.
There have been no infractions of our laws, rules and regulations
requiring serious action on the part of this Committee. There have been
several matters, which from their nature, were of necessity referred to
our Most Worship£ ul Grand Master for his determination.
Our symbolic Lodges have presented no insurmountable problems
nor have the concordant Scottish and York Rite Bodies.
It is the appendant prerequisite organizations which have necessitated a good portion of our Committee's work. Additionally there were
a few individual members of the craft plus the profane which required
the balance of our investigations.
Generally speaking the Shrine Temples have been most cooperative,
a number of them have asked for guidance in arranging prospective
events some of which were restricted to Masonic groups and others
open to the general public such as football games. boxing tournaments.
et cetera.
One temple arranged several f!WUp travel tours for its memberstravel brochures and other material to be mailed to its membership were
submitted to the Committee for clearnnce in order to make sure that the
matter contained there was not in violation, in all instances suggested
changes were observed.
There were some matters in regard to the Imperial Shrine Session
recently held in. San Francisco which have been referred to our Grand
Master for bis determination.
A Shrine Club in a populous section of the State advertised in the
local newspaper "A 5th Annual Luau" to be held in a public restaurant,
no reservation needed. 21 or over welcome, driving directions, etc. No
mention was made of the recipient charity. When called to the attention
of the Potentate under which the Club operated, a meeting of the Divan
was promptly convened and the President of the Club was removed
from office for having violated Masonic and Shrine law relative to
advertising.
Fund raising proposals of certain appendant groups, such as bazaars
and other schemes were submitted for clearance; unfortunately, in most
instances they were contrary to Grand Lodge regulations which were
pointed out to the inquiring person.
We have again had called to our attention several instances of the
mis-use of the Masonic symbol (the Square and Compass). Our investigation developed in most situations that the offending persons were
members of organizations not recognized by this Grand Lodge. The
attention of the offenders has been called to the fact that our symbols

144

GnAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated:
1.

To the Committee on JurisprudenceRecommendations Nos. 1, 3 and 6.
2. To the Committee on Policy and General PurposesRecommendations Nos. 1 to 6 inclusive.
3. To the Committee on FinanceRecommendations Nos. 2. 4 and 6.
4. To the Committee on RitualRecommendation No. 5.
5. To the Committee on Masonic EducationRecommendation No. 5.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We recommend the refe.r ral of this report in its entirety to the Committee on Finance.
0

GRAND SECRETARY S REPORT

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Secretary's Report
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated:
1. That portion of the report relative to the changes of meeting
place to the Committees on Charters and on By-Laws.
2. That portion relating to Lodge consolidations to the Committee
on Charters.
The Reports of the Grand Lecturer and the Trustees of the Masonic
Homes have gone direct to the Committee on Finance so no action by us
is necessary.
We have carefully read and reviewed the Grand Master's inspiring
message. We congratulate him on the brevity and clarity of the message.
We join with all the Masons of California in extending grateful appreciation for the dedication and devotion he has given to the Grand
Lodge during this Masonic Year.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
NILES 0. MILLAR, Chairman

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

are the property of this Grand Lodge and, as such, registered under the
Corporation Code of the State of California and that unauthorized use
is subject to cease and desist under the law. In practica lly all instances
assurance was given that unlawful use would be discontinued. We had
called to our atten tion two instances where Masters had personal cards
carrying the square and compass. the Lodge name and number, together
with their home and bus iness phones and also business and residence
addresses. This practice is not general so far as we could learn. Additionally, we found that a Past Master continued to use the card after he
had completed his term of office; the individual was contacted, he agreed
to discontinue the practice and to destroy remaining cards.
Your Committee has had referred to it by a number of prerequisite
organizations questions relating to fund raising projects such as bazaars
and other schemes which could conflict with our regulations. In a ll such
matters the requirements and prohibition of our regulations were pointed
out and a copy of the regulations made available to the inquiring organizations. We have had no report of any violations.
We have recently had called to our attention the activity of a Chicago publishing concern in contacting the Order of Rainbow for girls
to sell cook books. This matter is being investigated and will be reported
on later.
A possible mis-use of the Grand Lodge roster was called to our
attention when several solicitation letters were addresed to a Grand
Lodge officer who had been active in Masonic Research. Our investigation ascertained that travel and convention bureaus throughout the
State keep a list of such activities including the name of the person to
be contacted for use in endeavoring to bring the group to their area for
meetings. Tha t no Grand Lodge roster was used was evident from our
investigation.
Your Committee does not initiate investigations. Our action starts
when complaints are received. usually through the Grand Lodge, though
occasionally from members. In all cases we endeavor to take corrective
action by whispering good counsel. This we feel is far better for peace
and harmony than to cause turmoil.
There were a number of other matters handled routinely but none
of sufficient importance to warrant special mention.
Your Committee appreciates and wishes to thank the helpful cooperation of all called upon-the Inspectors, the Gra nd Lodge officers,
but especially the Grand Secretary and the Grand Master who were
so generous with their time and so understanding of our problems. It
was a genuine pleasure to have worked under and with them.

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE

Respectfully submitted,
VINCENT

Referred to Committee on Finance.

P. McMuRoo, Ch airman

FoR F1scA L YEAR E N DING JuNE

147

30, 1966

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its sixteenth year of ac tivity,
and herewith renders its report for the twelve mo~ths .ended June 30.
1966. Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical b~ckground
and basic information, which should be help ful to those attendmg Grand
Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent M an Rule in modified form was adopted by and for
Grand Lodge at the 1950 Communication. For the Constituent Lodges
a Prudent Man Rule was adopted in 1951.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California was formed for the purpose of administering the investable fun~s
of Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California, a nd the M asonic
Homes Endowment Fund.
The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constit~ent
Lodges, but Grand Lodge makes the services of its investment ~dv1sor
available to the Lodges without charge. Many Lodges are makmg use
of this service.
The following is M oody's report of activities for Constituent Lodges
for the year ending June 30, 1966:
Constituent Lodge Activity Report-July 1, 1965 to June 30, 1966
Number of active Lodges at
123
end of period ........................
167
Number of inactive Lodges ....
Approximate portfolio value .... $8,367 ,000
Approx. average value of
portfolios .............................. $ 68,024
4
New files set up during period
244
Review forms ..........................
179
Lodge letters ........................ ....
165
Moody's letters ........................
18
T elephone conta cts---···············
4
Office visits ·--·············-······· ····-Lodges are making full
the
that
hopes
Committee
The Investment
and continuing use of this valuable service.
The Investment Committee is composed of the Grand Treasurer,
the Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the Finance Committee the President of the M asonic Homes Board of Trustees or a Trustee
of 't hat Board designated by him, and the Chairman of the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board or a member of that Board designated by
him. The present members of the Investment Committee are:

148

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Paul A. Pflueger, P.M ............................... Grand Treasurer
Jack F. Bowley, P.M·-------··--·--·--··---Asst. Grand Treasurer
Guy B. Mize, P.G.M .... _____ Chairman, Finance Committee
L. Harold Anderson,
P.G.M. __ President, Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes
John M. Gordon, P.M. ________ Chairman, Endowment Board

GROUP Ill. Up to 60% may be invested in: (As amended 1959 ).
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and regis tered on
an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance
stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
C) Shares and/or certificates of insured Federal or State Savings and Loan Associations ( 1957 and 1959). The amount
invested in any one Association shall not exceed the amount
covered by insurance.
With respect to the authority to invest in Groups II and Ill, the
Ordinance reads as follows: "No such investments, however, shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total marke t value
of the securities ref erred to in this section exceeding twenty per cent or
sixty per cent (as the case may be) of the total market value of all the
cash, bank account s and securities held,"-the controlling point being
that there cannot be more than 20% or 60 % invested in Groups II and
III. at the time of purchase ( 100% may of course be invested in G roup

The Grand Secretary, Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., acts as Secretary
of the Committee.
By Ordinance, under Section 246 (formerly 86) with respect to
investments of Grand Lodge funds, and Section 403 (formerly 152.l )
respecting investments by Constituent Lodges, the following provisions,
as briefed, prevailed as of June 30, 1966. (See Sections 246 and 403,
C.M.C.):
GROUP I. At least 20% of the funds available for investment must
be in:
A) Cash and/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions.
D) Such other securities as are legal investments for savings
banks in California or Hawaii (as amended 1959).
GROUP II. Up to 20 % may be invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness. which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an exchange registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall not
apply to evidences of indebtedness of corporations whose
common stock is eligible for investment under the provisions
of Section III (a) hereof.
B) Preferred stocks, which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
except that this listing requirement shall not apply to pref erred stocks of corporations whose common stock is eligible
for investment under the provisions of Section III (A) hereof.

No such investments, however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred
to in this section exceeding twenty per cent ( 20%) of the total market
value of all the cash. bank accounts and securities held. (As amended
1965).

I).
At the 1959 Communication certain amendments were passed with
respect to the percentages which could be invested in Groups I and III.
Group I was reduced to 20% and Group III was increased to 60%. In
this connection, it is very important to call attention to the followi ng,
which is contained in the Reports of the Committee on Jurisprudence
and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
"Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully calls atten tion to
the fact that this proposed amendment is permissive only and is not a
directive. Great care should be exercised in making investments under
the authority granted by this proposed amendment."
"Your Committee on Policy and General Purpose recommends the
adoption of Resolution D-7 but with this admonition to the Lodges :
"A) The authority granted is permissive only and is not suggested
as an investment guide under present e.c onomic conditions.
"B) That in making investments in Group III the Lodges be most
circumspect in taking advantage of this additional authority.
"C) And that they strictly comply with the provisions of the last
paragraph of Section 403 of our Ordinances, to consult with and heed
the advice of the professional investment advisors used by Grand Lodge,
and made available to the Constituent Lodges without charge to the individual Lodge."
The above comments are included in the reports of the Committees
as they appear on page 282 of the 1959 Proceedings.

150

151

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

At the 1960 Communication Section 403 was amended. as follows:
"The provisions of this section requiring securities to be fully listed
and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, shall not apply
to the Honolulu Stock Exchange. This exception is confined to Lodges
located in the State of Hawaii." (The Honolulu Stock Exchange is not
as yet a National Securities Exchange, as defined by the Securities and
Exchange Commission).
We would also like to call your attention to the fact that there is a
circular issued by Grand Lodge regarding the investment of funds by
Constituent Lodges, which is available at the Grand Secretary's office.
Since its formation, the Investment Committee has met regularly
every three months. Between quarterly meetings the business of the
Committee is conducted by correspondence or telephone.
As stated, we have just completed sixteen years of operations. The
following is a summary of the consolidated market value of the securities owned. plus investable cash, together with a record of dollar income
on these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950. and for each
succeeding fiscal year, through June 30, 1966, including the percentage
income on the market value of each year.

During the past year securities were sold at prices yielding $653.390.00 more than their cost, thereby increasing the total asset value.
Since the inauguration of the Prudent Man Rule in 1950, this total
amounts to $5,060.408.97. Sales always remain a part of capital assets

CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE
OF SECURITIES AND INVESTADLE CASH•
(BY GROUPS AND TOTALS) AND DOLLAR INCOME (In Parentheaea)
Date
l ! /80/50
8/13/61

8/ 4/52
7/31/53
7/ 31/6'
7 / 81/65
7/31/ 56
6/ 30/ 57••
6/30/58
6/3 0/59
6/30/60
6/30/61
6/30/62
6/30/68
6/30/64
6/ 30/ 65
6/ 30/66

GROUP I
Amollltt Percent
$5,658,329
($94.280)
4,568. 243
($74,084)
4.2 18.637
($85,827 )
4.693.1 20
($102, 381)
4 ,351.29 4
( $95,258)
6,630,942
($126.621)
6,011,460
($1 57 ' 122)
6,205.936
($163,234)
6,397. 647
($174,662)
6,664.915
($242, 713)
7 ,249, 780
($282.574 )
6,741,788
($2 46,625)
4, 835,116
( $169,026)
7.180.956
( $266, 948)
10,830,679
($418,720)
10,289.650
($404,051)
13,255.671
($569,658)

92.4%
76.3
63.4
63.6
51.8
56.5
64.1
46.0
43.l
48.3
63.8
41.4

30.4
84.8
52.2
45.89
65.1

GROUP ll
Amount Perc.,nt

•

102.ao
($ 4. 262)
389,000
($16,652)
574,096
($20,832)
479,527
($19,394)
771.147
('27,968)
678,6 10
($24,394)
l.596,652
($63.588)
1,928,381
($89,399)
2,253. 739
($96,946)
1,854,635
($87,858)
2 .379,050
($117,031)
2,961,093
($137.967)
8,101,090
($147,489)
1,622,535
($66,878)
694,478
($80,825)
932,287
($40,202)
1,811,907
($76,092)

1.7%
6.5
8.7
6.5
~.2

6.7
14.4
17 .o
17.9
13.5
17.7
18.1
19.6
7 .6
3.4
4.16

7.5

See footnotes bottom of page 151.

GROUP III
Amo1U1t Percent

•

364,003
( $22,056)
1.026,725
($68,203)
1,856.121
($98.614)
2, 208, 658
($112,816)
S.278,814
($152.076)
S.820,092
( $1 58 .330)
3,605,096
($1 50,697)
•l. 192,291
($1 97,673)
4.878,339
($225, 340)
5.270,21 7
($l86,854)
3.837,628
( Sl42,233)
6, 589,011
($221,222)
7 ,978,485
(U23,243)
11,068,171
($375,150)
9,188.969
($289,416)
11,199,347
($880. 110 )
8 .961,464
($364 ,116)

6.9%
17.2
27.9
29.9
39.0
37.8
31.5
37.0
38.9
38.2
28.5

40.6
6<>.l

67.6

"·'

49.95

87.4

TOTALS

Income
Percent·
•I'•
Return•

Amount
• 6,124.471
($120,598)
5.972,968
($1 53.939)
6.648,854
($205,272)
7,38 1.306
($236,590)
8 .401.255
($275.296)
J0. 129,644
1$309.345)
11.11 3.108
($371,407)
11.326,608
( $440.306)
12,529.625
( $496.948)
13,789, 767
($517.426)
13.466, 458t t
($54 1,838)
16,281,892
($605,8 14)
15.909.690t
($639, 7 57)
19, 721,66Ut
($697,471)
20.714,026 ...
($738,717)
22,421,2841
($82',868 )
24,029.042
($1,009,868)

1.97%
2.58
3.09
3.21
S. 28
3.05

and are never included in income totals. With respect to the Endowment Fund, no capital assets are ever withdrawn.
Endowment Fund contributions made through the Lodges amounted
to $904,438 for the year ended June 30, 1966. Other gifts and bequests
for the Endowment Fund amounted to $203,335 bequests, $36,067
memorials and $7,789 miscellaneous, or a total of $247.191. For the
General Fund gifts and bequests, and memorial contributions from individuals and organizations, amounted to $1,099,009, (which also includes real estate and items other than stocks and bonds). The Masonic
Homes Board of Trustees determines how these gifts and bequests are
allocated-such allocations a re made in accordance with specific bequests, or in the absence of such at the direction of the Trustees. The
Endowment Fund contributions remain in that Fund, and only the income is used.
May we also call attention to the fact that the portfolio has increased
since November, 1950, from $6, 124,471 to $24,029,042, or about
292.34 % . and at the same time the income has increased from $120.598
to $1,009,866. or 737.38%. As mentioned above, $1,215.000 was withdrawn for the new Decoto hospital in the year ending June 30, 1960;
$128,000 was withdrawn in the year ending June 30, 1962, to fund the
unpaid balance of the Grand Lodge Pension Fund; the amount of $354,000 was withdrawn for the new dormitory and living quarters for employees in the yecrr ending June 30, 1963; $929,023.52 was withdrawn
in the year ending June 30, 1964 for work on the Charles Albert Adams
Hall, and $392,389 was withdrawn in the year ending June 30, 1965 for
work on the same hall, and a lso for furnishings. The total of all such
withdrawals amounts to $3,028,41 2.52.

8.34
3.92
8.97
3.76
4.02

S.72
4. 02
3.54
3.67

S.68
4. 201

•savlng1 bank depoeita wlth lntere1t earned theron a.re included In Group I.
ton market value.
••Fiscal yee.r changed U> June 30.
ttThe amount of $1,1 30.000 wns withdrnwn from the Masonic Home• Geneml Fund, and the
amount of $85,000 from the Flint Fund, during the yenr ended June SO, 1960, U> pay for the
new hospital at Deooto (total $1 ,2 16. 000 withdrawn).
tThe amount of $128,000 W IUI withdrawn from the Grand Lodge 1><>rtfolio In the year ended June
80, 1962, to fund the unpaid balanre of Grand Lodire Pension Fund.
UThe amount of $854.000 w . . withdrnwn from t.he General Fund in the year ended June 30, 1963,
for new dormitory a t Union City (Deooto).
In the year ended June SO,
.. "The amount of $939,023.52 "''SA withdrawn from t.he General Fund
196', aa pa.rt payment !or the new Charles Albert Adame Hail at Union City (Decoto).
General Fund and the amount of $77 .700 """"
fThe amount of $SU, 689 wrui withdrnwn from the
withdrawn from the Flint Fund during the year ended June SO, 1965, for the new Charlee
Albert Adamo Hall nt Union City (Dccoto).
~Rele...,nce ohould be made U> the !act that 1tock divldenca are not included u current income-they remain aa pntt of p ri ncipal. AR o f now, there la no fix ed o r uniform t hought in investment
continues to nlloent.e them
clrclea ,,.ith reopect to ouch atock dividend•, therefore the Committee
1art
to tbe corpus o1 our aaaeu, which in lha cue of tbe Endowment Fund remain inviolate •• 1
of principal.

152

The following is the consolidated investment portfolio of Grand
Lodge, with market values as of June 30, I 966, divided into the various
groups, and showing the percentage of each group, together with the
income return for each group on the market value :
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONSOLIDATED PORTFOLIO - JUNE 30, 1966
(Market Value .. )
Market
Value

GROUP I
Cash ···················-···············--···$ 696,700
Bonds:
U. S. Tre asury.......................... 3,315,076
U. S . Agency............................ 3,757,895
Municipal ..................................
90,000
Railroad Equipment .............. 5,200,000
Public Utility ..........................
196,000
TOTAL GROUP 1................ $13,255,671
GROUP II
Bonds:
Railroad ....................................$
37,022
Industrial ..................................
394,500
Finance ....................................._.__l_0~
0 ,_
6_40
_
$ 532,162
Preferred Stocks:
Industrial ..................................
380
Convertible .............................. 1,279,365
$ 1,279,745
TOTAL GROUP IL. ........... $ 1,811,907
GROUP III
Common Stocks:
Public Utility ..........................$ 3,055,610
Industrial .................................. 3,013,617
Finan ce .................................... 2,892,237
TOTAL GROUP III ............$ 8,961,464
GRAND TOTAL ................$24,029,042

153

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Percent

Income

$

55.1%

37.4
100.0

27,868

125,936
177,740
3,050
224,814
10,250
$ 569,658

4.2%

$

$
$

21
50,984
51,005
76,092

4.1

$ 140,161
118,835
105,120
$ 364,116
$1,009,866

4.0
4.2

We have three principal accounts, the Masonic Homes Endow ment
Fund, the Masonic Homes General Fund, Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
California (plus the several smaller funds of the M asonic Homes). The
record is kept by Moody's as one total fund, thereby reducing our cost
very materially. However, Grand Lodge records are kept separate as to
each fund, as are the records of the Investment Committee. As a matter
of interest, we list here the market values of the portfolios of the individual funds , together with the income and yield at market prices:
Total VaJ...,•

Income•

Yield•

$752,741.02 4.37 %
160,859.91 3.75
37,879.13 4.30
11,269.40 4.01
7,507.00

11,659.85

4.33

267,520.25

11 ,887.39

4.44

73,675.00

3,577.00

4.86

39,471.87

1,692.25

4.29

39,961.25
13,625.00

1,824.50
590.00

4.56
4.33

8,325.00

390.00

4.68

The Masonic Homes of California holds various Masonic Temple
shares or certificates, listed as follows :

.. In the above schedule railroad equipment truat issues a.re figured e.t par. If they were figu red at
market , t he total value of the portfolio would be approximat..ly $316,000 lest than the above
figure of $24,029,042.

Masonic Homes of California
Endowment Fund .......................................... $17,227,888.90
Masonic Homes of California General Fund 4,291,154.41
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California..........
880,806.00
Masonic Homes of California Flint Fund....
281,193.00
Masonic Homes of California
Florence K. Burt Fund..................................
294,283.01

269,504.50

•A8 f Jun 30 1966 Including inveat able cash. Inter..Bt on savings accounts, investable caah only,
figured est
in t his table rallrol\d equipment trust iR• uu are figured at present market
1vaalue. All of 4%
th e~e figure• a.re .;. of June 30, 1966, ond the yield on the Investments would vary
during the year, depen ding upon the m any factors which are Involved.

2,076
18,751
4,260
25,087

$

7.5

Return on
Market

Masonic Homes of California
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund..............
Masonic Homes of California
Students Loan Fund.................................... ..
Masonic Homes of California
Luckenbach Fund ..........................................
Masonic Homes of California
Residents' R eserve Fund..............................
Masonic Homes of California
Brigham Scholarship Fund..........................
Masonic Homes of California Perine Fund..
Masonic Homes of California
Wadleigh Fund ............................. - ...............

2.55

2 shs Santa Ana Masonic Temple Assn. Ltd. capital stock
3 shs Masonic Temple Assn . of Stockton capital stock
9 shs Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Assn. capital stock
46 shs Masonic Hall Association of Alameda capital stock
1 cert. of membership San Gabriel Masonic Temple Assn.
1 cert. for 10 memberships Rio Vista Masonic Temple Assn. Inc.
20 certs. Masonic Hall Association of Ontario

These evidences of debt or certificates are owned by the Masonic
Homes of California. It would be appreciated if negotiations were undertaken by those Lodges or Temple Associations which could afford to
redeem these certificates. The Investment Committee would greatly appreciate your consideration of this request. Just write to the Grand
Secretary for further information.
We have no particular case history to report this year. We still have
several very inte.r esting items which will mature in time-Santa Rosa
Savings & Loan Association, Corona Foothill Lemon Company. Ramona
Savings & Loan Association (Fillmore )-to name a few .
The entire portfolio is listed in the Grand Treasurer'~ _and Auditor~·
Reports, and therefore is not included herein. The securities are held m
safekeeping for account of Grand Lodge by the Trust Department of
the Crocker Citizens National Bank, at its One Montgomery Street Office, San Francisco.
We have had excellent attendance at our Investment Committee
meetings during this year, as has been the case since this Committee was
organized. We were very pleased to have M. W. Grand. Master Theodore Meriam and Deputy Grand Master Myron E. Smith at our August, 1965 meeting. Deputy Grand Master Laurence E . Dayton has
attended all of the meetings this past year.
Again we come to that portion of the Investment_Commi~tee report
when we try to summarize in few words the financial and investment
outlook as we see it.

154

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Drastic changes have occured in our economy since last year's Report. As shown by the figures, our approach has been decidedl y conservative . Our common stock portfolio as of June 30, 1966. was down
to 37,Yi% against an allowabl e of 60% .
We have also been enabled to take advantag e of the better interest
rates. Consequ ently, our net income percenta gewise has been greatly
increased .
When common stock purchase s again become more attractiv e, our
fixed income maturitie s are so spaced that we can readily take advantag e
of the opportun ities which may be made available . Greater caution has
been our endeavo r for the last few yeors; conseque ntly, we are prepared
for investme nt opportun ities as they may appear. Special mention should
be made of the fact that our primary consider ation in common stock investment is for growth in value over a period of years, if necessar y,
rather than intermed iate market price changes.
We began to adopt a very conserva tive approach in common stock
holdings at our February 1966 meeting -we reduced consider ably further at our May meeting, and by June 30, 1966 our common stock holdings were down to 37.4 % of our entire portfolio, vs. 49.95 % on June 30,
1965 and a high of 57.6% on June 30, 1963.
If the higher level of interest rates continue s for some time, we
should show a substant ial increase in net income. especiall y so inasmuch
as 55.1 % of our portfolio is now invested in Group I-the category
which is most susceptib le to the higher fixed income. No one can predict
how long the present high yields will continue , but we have fortified ourselves by investing substant ial sums in non-calla ble obligatio ns running
up to I 0 years in maturity and at prevailin g higher income rates.
We again repeat that our course of action can be quite different
from that of an individua l for a variety of reasons. This statemen t is
made so as not to unduly influence individua ls who read our recomme ndations for Grand Lodge agencies in their personal investme nt programs.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretar y and his staff, and my thanks to
the members of the Investme nt Committ ee for their wholehe arted and
·
generous cooperat ion at all times.
ee:
Committ
nt
Investme
the
of
Respectf ully submitte d on behalf
PAUL A. PFLUEGE R, Chairma n

Adopted .
At 12 :00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

155

AFTER NOON SESSIO N-Tues day, October 11, 1966
At 1 : 30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worship ful Ward H. Figgins. Master of Ontario Lodge No. 301. The invocatio n was delivered by the
Grand Chaplain .

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON LODGE FINAN CING
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
It is the intent of this report. respectfu lly ~ubmitted for your approval ,
to indicate the activities of the Committ ee on Lodge Financin g during
the past year. A review of the report discloses continue d activity in the
construc tion, maintena nce , and operation of Masonic Temples throughout the jurisdiction. A further study reveals a definite improvement in
the administ ration of the business and financial affairs of Masonic
T emples. During the past year 297 Temple Associat ions have submitte d
to the Committ ee for its informat ion, study, and review a statemen t of
financial status as required by Section 200 of the Masonic Code. These
reports reflect a definite and continuin g progress in Masonic Temple
fiscal processe s and controls. All of this has resulted in increased interest
in the financial affairs of the Lodges througho ut the jurisdicti on and
further indicates that they are being managed in a most efficient manner, and in almost every instance are being maintain ed in a state of
solvency. Each year more and more Lodges and Temple Associat ions
are establish ing .necessa ry cash and depreciat ion reserves, which are
so importan t for the repair, rehabilit ation. and replacem ent of the Temples as may be required in the future.
In the past year the Committ ee acted upon 79 applications relating
to the purchase of property , construc tion, maintena nce, and other matters concerni ng the financial operation of their Lodge facilities. The
Committ ee approved 18 applicati ons for the transfer of funds from the
Lodges to the Temple Associat ions for use in matters relating to Temple
construc tion, operation , and maintena nce; 11 requests for the purchase
of property for future Temple sites; five requests to enter into contracts
for the construc tion of new Masonic Temples ; 10 requests for capital
improvem ents, expansio n, renova ting, and repairs; eight requests to borrow funds; six requests to form Masonic Temple Associat ions for the
purpose of conducting the financial affairs of the Lodges; three requests
to enter into satisfact ory leasing agreeme nts ; I 0 requests to invest in
Temple Associat ion stock and other various items. This, together with
other miscellaneous items, required action of the Committ ee in more
than 120 proceedi ngs. Approxi mately 80 visitation s were made to
Lodges , at their request, to advise and counsel with the brethren concerning problems respectin g Lodge and Temple Associa tion matters .

156

157

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

These visitations were most successful and in all instances the problems
were resolved satisfactoril y to all concerned.
The Committee again points out the importance of keeping the
Masonic Temples in proper order and repair. A Masonic Temple in
disrepair reflects a very poor light in all of those who view it. A well
ordered Temple, both inside and out, gains the respect and regard of
the neighborhoo d and community in which it is located. So much can
be done with enthusiastic effort and little financing. The Committee
feels that it is the obligation of the Lodges to keep pace with the community in which they are a part. We urge you to continually view your
Temples in order to keep them and their surrounding s in such exemplary
condition that they will gain and hold the respect and support of the
community, which is so necessary for the success and growth of our
fraternity.
The Committee also recommends that Lodges and Temple Associations constantly review their insurance program in order that they may
be assured that they are properly covered in all requirement s necessary
to protect their property and their members. Also, that occasional review
be made as to their status relating to tax requirement s of local. state,
and federal agencies. The requirement s as to tax exemption should be
strictly adhered to in order that the individual Lodges, Temple Associations, and the fraternity conform to all existing laws relating to tax
matters.
Yearly activities of the Committee are contained in detail on the
following pages of this report and will be included in the published
proceedings .

SmsuN No . 55
Application approved granting consent to request to transfer $10.000.00 from Lodge general funds to the Fairfield-Su isun Buil~ing Asso'ation to pay part of the cost of constructing a new Temple; said tr~n:fer
~~be in exchange for a regular membership in said Building Assoc1at1on .

BAKERSFIEL D MASONIC TEMPLE Assoc1AT10N

Consent granted request to borrow funds as follows :
From: Scottish Rite -··- -·····-··-··-··-·····- -········-······-$15,000.00
York R ite ··-··································-·· ········ 4,000.00
Libertas Lodge No. 466.......................... 6,250.00
Consent also granted to expend approximate ly $37,500.00 to repair
air conditioning and heating unit in the Temple.
FRESNO MASONIC COMPANY

Approval granted and previous action ratified relative to contract
with architects as contained in agreement dated April 1, 1966.
FRESNO MASONIC TEMPLE COMPANY

Action taken ratifying previous purchase of property for a Temple
site for new Masonic Temple as set forth in application.
RICHMOND MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted request to enter into contract for preparation of
plans for construction of a new Temple as described in " Title I " of said
contract.

SmsuN No. 55
Application approved requesting consent to enter into contract to
start first phase of constructing new Temple at a cost not to exceed
$82,161.77.
SANTA RosA N o. 57
Application approved and consent granted request to transfer
$7,026.00 from Lodge general funds to the ~emple Associatio.n ~or the
purpose of installing air conditioning system m the Temple bu1ldmg.
L1vE OAK No. 61
Consent granted request to invest $41,000.00 of Masonic F~nd Association funds for the purchase of stock in the Oakland Masonic Temple
Association.
HUMBOLDT No. 79
Consent granted request to form a non-profit Temple Association
and to transfer at least $250.00 from Lodge general funds to the Association when formed.
YosEMITE No. 99

Application approved requesting consent to purchase property for
Temple site for Yosemite Lodge in the approximate sum of $20,000.00,
plus costs.
CLEAR LAKE No. 183
Application approved requesting consent to borrow $1,500.00 for the
purpose of completing contract payments on construction of new Temple.
OAKLAND No. 188
Application approved and consent granted request to invest $10,000.00 of Lodge funds in the Oakland Masonic Temple Association.
TRUCKEE No . 200
Consent granted request to borrow $8,000.00 for the purpose of
repairing and remodeling Masonic Temple.
Lom No. 256
Application approved and consent granted request to borrow $500.00
from Lodi Lodge general funds for remodeling work required on the
Temple.
EvERGREEN No. 259
Application approved requesting consent to transfer $110,000.00
from Lodge general funds to the Temple Association for the purchase
of property for a new Temple site.

158

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ANCHOR LoocE No. 273
Consent granted application to purchase property adjacent to the
Lodge for parking and other Masonic purposes.
MoNRovrA No. 308
Consent granted request to transfer $1,300.00 from Lodge general
funds to the Building Corporation for the purpose of purchasing required
furnishings in the Lodge; said transfer to be in exchange for 13 regular
membership shares of stock in said corporation.
TEMESCAL No. 314
Consent granted to enter into lease as set forth in application and as
approved by Committeeman Benjamin L. Susman.
CovrNA No. 334
Application approved requesting consent to borrow funds for the
purpose of purchasing property adjacent to the Temple for parking and
future Masonic Temple uses.
SEQUOIA No. 349
Application approved and consent granted request to transfer not to
exceed $50,000.00 from Lodge general funds to the Temple Association
for the purpose of purchasing stock in the Oakland Masonic Temple
Association.
GOLDEN STATE No. 358
Consent granted the application to transfer title to property acquired
by will, from the Lodge to the Temple Association.
GoLDEN STATE No. 358

Request granted to transfer $'1,000.00 from Lodge building fund to
the Temple Association for the purpose of making payment on mortgage.
UNITY No. 368
Consent granted request to transfer $3,000.00 from Lodge general
funds to the Temple Association for the payment of currently due property taxes.
UNITY No. 368
Previous action of the Lodge transferring $1,500.00 from Lodge
general funds to the Temple Association for the payment of taxes was
approved by the Committee.
HIGHLAND PARK No. 382

Consent granted request to expend approximately $3.500.00 for
necessary repairs, painting, etc. on Masonic Temple.
TuRLOCK No. 395
Consent granted request to expend approximately $6,000.00 for the
purpose of installing the air conditioning unit as described in application.
TURLOCK No. 395
Committee amended previous action and now consents to the expenditure of approximately $14,500.00 to complete repairs and construction work on the Temple.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

159

BURLINGAME No. 400
Request approved to expend approximately $5,740.00 to replace
existing roof on the Temple building.
YORBA LINDA No. 469
Application approved requesting consent to form the Yorba Linda
Masonic Temple Association; also consent to transfer $250.00 from
Lodge general funds to the Association when incorporated.
THOUSAND OAKS No. 478
Application approved requesting consent to purchase not to exceed
$500.00 of outstanding stock in the Thousand Oaks Masonic Temple
Association during the year 1966.
FELLOWSHIP No. 480
Application approved to transfer $15.000.00 from Lodge general
funds to the Oakland Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of
investing in stock in said Association.
FELLOWSHIP No. 480
Application approved requesting consent to purchase an additional
$5,000.00 in stock in the Oakland Masonic Temple Association.
CALEDONIA No. 486
Consent granted request to transfer $3,000.00 from Lodge general
funds to the Building Association for the purpose of installing a new
air conditioning system in the Lodge at an approximate cost of $5,000.00;
said transfer to be in exchange for a regular membership in said Association.
AcoRN No. 494
Consent granted request to transfer not to exceed $35,000.00 from
Lodge general funds to the Oakland Masonic Temple Association for the
purpose of purchasing memberships or stock in said Association.
FREMONT No. 497
Approval granted request to invest $50,000.00 in the Oakland
Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of being a participant and
tenant in the new Masonic Temple in Oakland.
EL SEGUNDO No. 507

Committee consent granted to transfer $1,000.00 from Lodge general
funds to the T emple Association for purposes outlined in the application.
PALMS No. 512
Consent granted request to expend approximately $11,000.00 to
remodel the exterior of Palms Masonic Temple.
BELLFLOWER No. 523
Approval granted application to expend approximately $4,500.00 to
provide additional storage space in the Masonic Temple.

160

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
R1ALT0 No. 582

Application approved as follows:
. Ent~~ into a .~ontract to start construction of the new Temple to
include Phase I only, provided that
not be ~?ntracted or any additional expenditure s re(a) "P~ase
lating to Phase 1 be entered into without further consent of
the Committee.
( b) A progress r~port regarding fund raising activities be presented
to the Committee at the next communication of Grand Lodge.

2:·.

RIALTO No. 582
Application approved to trans fer $10,000.00 from Lodge general
funds to Temple Association for the purpose of completing "Phase I"
of the Temple bui.ldi~g program; such transfer to be in exchange for a
regular membership m the Temple Association .
ELMHURST No. 610
Consent granted. the request to invest $5,000.00 of Lodge funds in
the Oakland Masonic Temple Association.
ANGELES MESA No. 625
Appli~ation approved to transfer $2,700.00 from Lodge general funds
to the Building Association for purposes outlined in the application.
LAGUNA BEACH No. 672

Applicatio~ approved requesting consent to purchase property for a

new Temple site for Laguna Beach Lodge in the approximate sum of
$45,000.00.
W1Lww GLEN No. 676
Application approved to purchase property for a Temple site in the
amount and under the conditions set forth in said application.
BARSTOW No. 682

Ap~lication approved to secure loans from various members of the
~dg.e m a ~otal sum not to exceed $20.000.00 under the terms set forth
m said application.

BARSTOW No. 682
transfer $5,000.00 from Lodge funds to
to
a~proved
.
.Application
Building Assoc1at1on for the purpose of making payment on outstanding
$I 0,000.00 mortgage.
SAN CARLOS No. 690
Application approved to transfer $22,000.00 from Lodge general
fun.ds to the Temple Association for the purpose set forth in the application :rnd supporting documents.
WESTCHEST ER No. 703
~onsent granted application to borrow $3,000.00 for the purpose of
paying current property taxes.

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

161

ORINDA No. 704
Consent granted request to borrow $20,000.00 from East Bay
Masonic Building Association for the purpose and under the terms and
conditions stated in the application.
LORENZO No. 709
Application approved requesting consent to Lodge to purchase five
certificates in the Lorenzo Masonic Building Association at $100.00 per
certificate.
Los ALTOS No. 712
Consent granted request to purchase property for a new Temple site
for Los Altos Lodge in the approximate sum of $50,000.00.
MAGNOLIA PARK No. 715

Approval granted request to purchase property for a future Temple
site for Magnolia Park Lodge at an approximate cost of $42,000.00.
PENINSULA No. 745
Consent granted the application to purchase property of the Belmont
Masonic Club, Inc. in the sum of $14,200.00; said property to be for
Masonic Lodge purposes.
FrvE Po1NTS No. 779
Application approved requesting consent to incorporate the Five
Points Masonic Temple Association ; also consent to transfer $100.00
from Lodge general funds to the Association when formed.
OAK PLAINS No. 789
Consent granted request to transfer $1 ,500.00 from Lodge general
funds to the Temple Association for the purpose of paving adjacent lot
for parking uses; consent also granted to expend approxima tely
$5.900.00 to complete the work.
GEN. HENRY H. ARNOLD No. 791

Consent granted request to incorporate the Henry H. Arnold Building Association subject to the condition that at least $250.00 be transferred from Lodge general funds to the Association when the corporation
is formed.
AMERICAN RIVER No. 795
Consent granted request to form the American River Masonic T emple Association, subject to the condition that at least $250.00 be transferred from Lodge funds to the Association when formed.
S 1M1 VALLEY No. 806
Consent granted request to transfer $4.500.00 from Lodge general
funds to the Temple Association to pay off mortgage on property being
purchased for site of Simi Valley Lodge; said transfer to be in exchange
for re!Jular membership in the Association,

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SCEPTER No. 808
Application approved and consent granted request to purchase property of Riman Hall for Masonic purposes; also consent to transfer not
to exceed $2,000.00 from Lodge general funds to the Temple Association.
Los ALAMITOS No. 809
Approval granted application requesting consent to form the Los
Alamitos Masonic Temple Association; also consent to transfer $100.00
from Lodge general funds to the Association when incorporated; said
transfer to be in exchange for a regular membership in the Association.
The past year has been a very successful one in the activities of the
Committee, and this is principally due to the splendid cooperation received from the Inspectors and the Officers of the Lodges and Temple
Associations. We express our appreciation for the support and encouragement given by our Grand Master, Myron E. Smith, and his officers.
We also acknowledge the Grand Secretary and the Assistant Grand
Secretary and their most efficient and accommodating staff for their
assistance and cooperation. With such assistance. cooperation, and
encouragement from everyone concerned, the privilege of serving Grand
Lodge is most rewarding.
Masonry is continually on the move in California and will continue
to be, so long as its members have the determination and the desire to
build and to continue to build Temples creditable to the craft, Temples
where they may gather together in unity and harmony to dedicate and
rededicate themselves to be diligent in their work, to live creditably and
act honorably by all men.
Respectfully submitted,
MARK A. GREEN, Chairman
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To th e Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A M. of California:
Since filing our report for 1965, there have been changes in the
payroll tax laws which apply to our various Masonic organizations.
As has been our custom in past years, we present. for reference
purposes, the usual schedule of tax rates and wage bases for the various
payroll taxes which will be in effect during the calendar year 1967 and
thereafter.
Now pending before the U. S. Congress is Bill H.R. 15119 (as
amended by the Senate Finance Committee) which would effect major
changes in both Federal and California Unemployment Tax, possibly
effective January 1, 1967, when the rate of Federal Unemployment Tax
would increase to .6% from the present .4%. The Federal taxable wage
base would be increased to $3,900.00 for 1968-1971 and $4,800.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163

thereafter. The bill would also instigate changes for California purposes.
It is quite possible that this legislation will pass this year. Mention
thereof is made to post you on possible future developments.
FEDERAL WITHHOLDING (INCOME} TAX
All wages paid to employees of a Masonic Lodge are subject to
Federal income tax withholding. In order to determine the amount of
income tax which is to be withheld from wages paid to its employees.
the Lodge should ask each employee to complete and file with the Secretary of the Lodge a Federal Form W-4, "Employee's Withholding
Exemption Certificate." Reference to withholding tax tables furnished
by the Treasury Department will enable the Secretary to determine the
amount to be withheld.
As you know from the coverage accorded it in the press, there is a
definite possibility of a tax increase in 1967. In this event you would,
of course, have to secure new withholding tables.
FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS (SOCIAL SECURITY)
An employee of a Masonic Lodge is subject to tax for each calendar
quarter during which he earns $50, or more. The tax rates shown below
are applicable to the first $6,600.00 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year. These rates are to be paid by both the employer and the employee.
Calendar Year

1967 and 1968
1969-1972 Incl
1973-1975 Incl.
1976-1979 Ind.
1980-1986 Incl.
198 7 and thereafter

FICA

PER CENTUM
Hospital Insurance

Total

3.9
4.4
4.85
4.85
4.85
4.85

.5
.5
.55
.6
.7
.8

4.4
4.9
5.4
5.45
5.55
5.65

--

As a practical matter, the total tax (i.e., 4.4% for 1967) may be applied to subject
wages as no apportionment is required.

FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT TAX
Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if they employ four or
more individuals who are paid $50 or more per calendar quarter, pro~
viding they have first qualified as an "employer" by employing four or
more employees on at least one day in each of 20 or more weeks during
the calendar year, For this purpose, all paid employees of the Lodge,
including the Secretary and those who are performing ritualistic services
(Tiler. Organist, Soloist), should be counted if they receive $50 or more
per calendar quarter.
Federal Unemployment Tax at the rates shown below will be applicable to the first $3,000 of wages paid to each employee during the
calendar year. However, Lodges which are subject to the California

164

165

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRANO LODGE. OP CALIPORNIA

Unemployment Insurance Tax law, and which meet certain requirements,
will be entitled to a credit up to 2.7%. Only the employer pays Federal
Unemployment Tax.

(in later years this could decrease to as little as .2% ). Only the em~
ployer pays this tax.

Tax Rate
Calendar Year

{Gross}

1967 and thereafter
3.1%
(as law now provides)

Maximum Credit
For Payment of
Calif. Unemp. Ins. Tax

Tax Rate
(Net)

2.7%

.4%

Note, however, the possibility of change to a net tax of .6% if the amendments
referred to above are adopted.

CALIFORNIA DISABILITY INSURANCE TAX

The rules regarding coverage. discussed under the heading "Call~
fornia Unemployment Insurance Tax," are the same for this part of
the law. Only the employee pays this tax. The tax rate is 1.0% and it
is applied to the first $7.400.00 paid to each employee.
Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER L. CROCE, Chairman

CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX

Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if the total wages paid
during a calendar quarter to taxable employees are in excess of $100.
For this purpose a taxable employee is one who is paid $50 or more per
calendar quarter. However, whether or not elected or appointed officials
of a Lodge are to be counted as taxable employees will depend upon
whether or not the Lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax
Act.
If the Lodge is not subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act,
then the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be exempt
from California Unemployment Insurance Tax unless the wages paid
to these officials exceed $100 per month.
If the Lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, then
the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be subject to
California Unemployment Insurance Tax if the wages paid to these
officials amount to $50, or more, per calendar quarter.
For purposes of this tax, the term "elected or appointed official" will
include any official of the Lodge who is compensated for his services.
Those usually compensated for their services are the Secretary, Tiler,
Organist, and Soloist.
If the Lodge is subject to California Unemployment Insurance Ta~.
the tax rate shown below will be applicable to the first $3.800.00 paid
to each employee during the calendar year 1967. Only the employer
pays the tax . This base of $3,800.00 is effective for calendar year 19?7.
Thereafter it will fluctuate between $3,800.00 and $4.100.00 dependmg
upon the condition of the fund.
Rates based on employment experience.
Graduated from 0.0 or .8 % (depending upon which rate schedule
is in effect) to a maximum of 2.7%. State will furnish notification of
rate.
CALIPORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAXBALANCING ACCOUNT FUND

Wages subject to the tax under the heading "California Unemploy~
ment Insurance Tax" will a lso be subject to this tax at the rate of 1.0%

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Public Schools has endeavored to carry forward
the ideas and programs of former committees and to initiate some inno~
vations and long range plans.
We have had the enthusiastic support and encouragement of the
Grand Master, Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith, and the other Grand
~dge line elective officers, as well as the Grand Secretary and his staff.
and to all of them we express our profound thanks.
The proclamation by the Grand Master announced the theme "Keep
America Strong ... Support Our Public Schools" and designated the
week of April 25-29, 1966 as Public Schools Week. Cooperation of
public and school officials throughout California and Hawaii resulted in
numerous supporting proclamations or pronouncements reaching to the
general public.
Among these was a Resolution passed by the Assembly of the Cali~
fornia State Legislature which, among other things , mentioned that
"Public Schools Week was created and sponsored by the Grand Lodge
of California, Free and Accepted Masons , in 1920, and has become a
major event in our s tate . • • ,"
The State Senate of Hawaii passed a Resolution respecting the 1966
Public Schools Week and included a commendation to the Masonic
Fraternity for sponsorship of this event.
Mayor John F. Shelley of San Francisco, and Sam Yorty of Los
Angeles, both issued proclamations. Mayor Yorty' s Proclamation made
reference to the California Grand Lodge.
These are mentioned only because of the geographical population
involved. Many others similarly contributed.
Communications were issued by P.G.M. Henry C. Clausen, 33° to
"All Valleys Orient of California" of the Scottish Rite, and by E. Mon~
roe Foster, Grand High Priest, Andrew F. Johnson, Grand Master, and
William D. Tucker, Grand Commander, to all York Rite bodies of
California.

166

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GENERAL PROMOTION AND PUBLICITY

At the Committee's request the Masonic Press Club in LOs Angeles
disseminated large quantities of press releases and spot announcements
for radio and television prepared by the Committee. Similar material
was widely used elsewhere throughout the jurisdiction. In the future
it is intended that material will be made available to each committee man
who will see to the proper placement in his own territory.
Nine supermarket chains were contacted with the request that they
give Public Schools Week publicity in their ads the week preceding, and
also if possible, the week of Public Schools Week. Favorable replies and
advertising was received from four of the chains. It is hoped to increase
this in the coming year.
Postal meter die hubs were used by at leas t one public utility company in Southern California.
Several milk companies utilized Public Schools W eek imprinting on
their milk cartons.
Three half hour television programs devoted entirely to public
schools were produced. These dealt, among other things, with the history 0£ Public Schools Week and Masonic interest in the subject. The
Grand Master was the principal guest pa rticipant in one, the Senior
Grand Warden in another, and members of your committee took part in
two o f them. It is hoped to expand this type of presentation.
The 1966 posters and stickers were created a nd printed at Los
Angeles Trade Technical College, as in all recent years. This year the
California flag was reproduced on the posters for use in California, and
the Hawaiian flag for those distributed in H awaii.
Quantities were : California Posters ·---····--··-·--··············---- 20,000
California Stickers ................................ 125,000
750
Hawaiian Posters ..................................
Hawaiian Stickers ························-····-···· 2,500
Many lodges ordered and paid for these. A good many lodges did
not. Rather than destroy what was left on hand, supplies were sent
without charge to the lodges which had failed to send in orders. The
cost was charged against the budget of the Committee on Public
Schools. We recognize that a few lodges probably cannot afford to purchase the posters or do not have a need for the minimum order. Those
lodges which can afford the nominal cos t and which did not place orders, are urged to cooperate this coming year by joining in the program
and helping to defray the cost of printing which is done without any
profit to the college as a "class project."
One new undertaking this year was the preparation and printing of
a pamphlet entitled ''The Masons of California and Hawaii Salute their
School Administrators[", and with the cooperation of the executive officers of the California Association of School Administrators approxi-

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNIA

167

Dlately 1000 copies of the pamphlet were handed out at the registration
desk in San Francisco at the Annual Meeting in December, 1965.
1966 OBSERVANCES
We have received numerous letters, reports and programs of this
year's observance activities. They indicate that Public Schools Week
was widely and successfully observed in both states, and that many
excellent and well attended programs were presented. There is too much
detail to be included in this report. A voluminous file is being maintained,
and this can be made available for inspection by those interested. Much
help could be obtained therefrom by persons desiring ideas and suggestions.
Some lodges banded together to arrange large scale musical programs, and general programs with prominent speakers. DeMolays, Job's
Daughters, and Rainbow Girls participated in many of the programs.
Under sponsorship and guidance of a Lodge or Lodges, many schools
conducted essay contests. Winning essays were read on "Open House
Night" during Public Schools Week.
In the other classes, contests were conducted to see which room had
the most registered visitors on "Open House Night."
Prizes have been cash, honorary certificates, globes, dictionaries,
U . S. Savings Bonds, small hand looms, etc.
Incidentally, a $50.00 U . S. Savings Bond was presented, at an
assembly, to the art student at Trade Tech College who designed the
1966 Poster.
In the Barstow area, because of distances between schools and relatively small school population, the help of the U. S. Marine Corps was
enlisted to transport small groups by helicopter to a central meeting
place for a general program.
The optimum in lodge participation and attendance at observances
has not, however, been achieved.
We do not have an overall reliable survey, but we do have a sampling
by one of the committee members who sent out questionnaires to 109
lodges. He received only 73 replies. These showed that 57 lodges had a
Public Schools Week program, 16 lodges had none, and we have no
information as to the remaining 36 lodges which did not respond. This
is an unhappy contrast to areas where we know that participation was
virtually 100 %.
COMMITTEE WORK AND PLANNIN G

An innovation this year was the inauguration of meetings of the
entire Committee, attended by members from California and Hawaii.
Heretofore sectional meetings only had been held, in the interest of
economy, which we respect. However, we felt that general meetings
would be more productive in obtaining the coordinated ideas and forming

168

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

of general plans for state-wide observances of PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK in the two states, and in effecting an expansion timewise and in
subject matter of the Committee efforts, and consequently that the additional cost would be justified.
The first meeting was held March 12, 1966 in Fresno, and was attended by the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior
and Junior Grand Wardens. A part of the occasion was given over to a
"kickoff" luncheon attended by Masons and public school officials. The
Proclamation of the Mayor of Fresno was presented, and the Grand
Master delivered the principal address.
The second meeting was held June 25, 1966 in Los Angeles, and the
third meeting is called for October 11, 1966 in San Francisco.
The work done at the meetings is documented in some detail in written minutes, copies of which are on file in the Grand Secretary's office.
Summarizing some of the more important subjects covered at the
meetings and in interim activities:
1. With the endorsement of the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior
and Junior Grand Wardens, dates have been fixed and announced for
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK for the years t 967, 1968 and 1969. This
is of great value to all interested agencies, enabling them to properly
schedule events well in advance. The dates designated uniformly correspond to the last week in April. which includes Monday through Friday.
2. The Deputy Grand Master has selected the following slogan for
1967: "Insure America's Future - Know and Support Our Public
Schools."
The date for Public Schools Week in 1967 is April 24-28.
The Deputy Grand Master has approved the general format for the
1967 posters, and work thereon is progressing at Trade Technical Col~
lege.
3. A new manual entitled PUBLIC SCHOOL OBSERVANCES
GUIDELINES has been completed in draft rea dy for submission to the
Grand Master for approval. and to be printed when approved and funds
are allocated. All the old manuals are out of print. Some of them contain
valuable information of an enduring nature, and others contain much
material which dated them and made repeated use illogical. All of the
old manuals were carefully reviewed and useable subject matter extracted. new matter added. and the whole s ubject presented in a new
formate which is not dated. but should be useful indefinitely. It is anticipated that annual brief supplements to cover current facts will be issued.
The completed manual is intended for Grand Lodge officers. Inspectors.
Masters and Lodge Committeemen.
4. A second much shorter manual is in prepara tion, intended to be
printed in large quantities for distribution to school and community officials. This will probably replace the pamphlet entitled "The Masons of

GRAND LODGE OF Cl\LIPORNIA

169

California and Hawaii Salute their School Administrators!", mentioned
above, which was hastily prepared when consent was finally obtained
for its distribution at the CASA meeting.
5. A s tudy has been made, and a geographical division for responsibility of individual members of the Committee on Public Schools h~s
been prepared. This was done because we found that many areas d.1d
not have a Committee member readily available, and the local committees did not know where to turn for guidance and assistance. It is our
hope to eliminate such ''blackout" areas.
6. As one of the results of the foregoing study. the Committee also
found that 15 members are not adequate to fully and properly discharge
the Committee's responsibilities, and a resolution has been presented to
remedy this by increasing the membership of the Committee from 15 to
18.
7. It was the consensus of the Committee that not enough attention
is being given in Lodges and by Masons generally to the administrative
and financial needs of the public schools. This is due in part to the concern of Masters that such topics might be interpreted as controversial or
political, and therefore not the proper subject matter for discussion in
Lodge meetings. Your Committee is of the opinion th.at these. mat~ers do
not fall within the prohibition of our laws, and to clanfy the situation the
Committee has presented a resolution which reads as follows:
"WHEREAS, fo r 47 years the Masons in California and Hawaii
ha ve actively supported our Public School Systems; and
WHEREAS, individual Masons should be inspired and encouraged
to serve on local school boards; and
WHEREAS. School bonds and taxes are vital toward the continuation of our Public School Systems;
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED: that these matters may be
discussed in lodge meetings but that action by the lodge to e~~ors~. or
disapprove any candidate. bond or tax issue is expressly proh1b1ted.
GENERAL COMMENTS

A year around activity of great importance is the laying of cornerstones of new school buildings. This is becoming more and more prevalent, and all credit for this must go to the Grand Master and other Grand
.
.
.
Lodge officers.
Some lodges make it a practice to assign the cha1rmansh1p of a !odge
committee on Public Schools to an officer when he reaches a particular
station in the line. This short term appointment results in loss of continuity, an extra burden on the officer, and sometimes the officer is .not
fitted or experienced for the responsibility. It is suggested t~at appointment be made on the basis of ability, willingness and enthusiasm for the
task, and that an advantage from the standpoint of lodge activity can be
.
realized by selection of a brother who is not in the line.
There is a great temptation to name individual members of this Com-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

170

171

PROCEEDINGS Of' THE

mittee, and many other brethren and friends for credit. The list would
be extensive and undoubtedly incomplete. Inasmuch as all the work
throughout the jurisdiction of California and Hawaii was either Masonic
labor or labor for the benefit of the schools and the students, and consequently the whole community, we refrain from including names, and
simply thank sincerely all who participated in any way in the project
which means so much.
BUDGET

As required, we include in this report a request for a budget allowance of $6,650.00 for anticipated expenditures, details of which have
been furnished to the Committee on Finance.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER, Chairman

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The twenty-seventh annual report of the Grand Lodge of California
Committee on Constitution Observance that follows records the response by the Lodges in this jurisdiction to the Grand M.a ster's Proclamation, an account of the commendable accomplishments of the
Committee members during the past year, and our recommendation
concerning the status of this Committee for next year.
This year we observed the l 79th Anniversary of one of the most
ambitious and forceful documents ever written, the Constitution of the
United States of America.
Majority approval of the Constitution, foundation of our freedoms
and cornerstone of our Government. took place on September 17, 1787,
when thirty-nine of the sixty-five qualified delegates to the constitution
convention signed this document. Of the thirty-nine who signed the
Constitution, twenty-three are said to have been Masons.
At a meeting in Philadelphia under the Chairmanship of George
Washington, the Constitution was approved and sent to the Contin en ta!
Congress for submission to the people of the United States.
The Constitution Observance Committee was initially chartered as
a special Committee by Grand Master William B. Ogden in 1940 to
promote the observance of Constitution Day. This year Grand Master
Myron E. Smith chartered the Committee on Constitution Observance
as a Special Committee to assist Masons. their families and friends to
understand and appreciate the Constitution of the United States-to
show them that it is more than a mere historic document-that it is a
vital contract between each American citizen and his Government.
Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith in his proclamation dated June 1.

1966, pointed out that a grateful people have enshrined the Cons titution of the United States in the National Archives Building in the Nation's capitol. To stand before it is an unforgettable experience for here
is our charter of freedom and the heritage and pride of the American
people.
He also proclaimed the month of September, 1966, to be Constitution
Observance Month and directed all constituent Lodges in California and
Hawaii to hold public ceremonies during that month commemorating
the signing of the Constitution.
Your Committee is pleased to report that this year's Constitution
Observance was an unqualified success. Our aim was to promote awareness of our Constitution and appreciation of this great document.
Grand Master Myron E. Smith has sincerely and effectively supported his proclamation with dedication and enthusiasm. He w.a s the
keynote speaker at observance programs throughout the State.
The Grand Lodge of California was the leader among the many
fraternal. patriotic, and civic organizations joining together in public
ceremony to observe the anniversary of the signing of the Consti tution.
Analysis of the Masters' reports on the Constitution Observance
Program reveals the acceptance of the Grand Lodge assignment ranged
from acquiescence to enthusiastic support by the Lodge Masters. When
the Masonic organization did an outstanding job the people of California and Hawaii demonstrated interest in their program. Outstanding
observance programs were presented in the two states before audiences
ranging from a few score to several thousands. W~ especially co~men d
the Masonic Lodges sponsoring observances which were held m the
cities cited be]o,.,,. for they met our criteria of an outstanding program.
Although there were many other programs which are cons i~ered by
some to be even more impressive, these were selected for their overall
excellence.
Lynwood
San Jose
Azusa
Oakland
Stockton
Buena Park
San Fernando
W estminster
Dinuba
Santa Cruz
Boron
Kingsburg
Van Nuys
Concord
Monrovia
Woodland
Feather Falls
Paradise
Blyth
Los
Angeles
San Gabriel
Delano
Newhall
Sierra. Madre
Honolulu
San Diego
Vallejo
Manhattan Beach
San Rafael
Bakersfield
Pacific Grove
Torrance
Chula Vista
San Francisco
Wilmington
El Cajon
Santa Monica
Daty City
Long Beach
Ventura
Hollywood
Napa
Yucaipa
Barstow
Pico Rivera

172

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Proclamations designating periods for participation in Constitution
Observances were made by the following public officials:
The President of the United States ;
The Governors of California and Hawaii;
The Mayors of the following cities in California and Hawaii:
Banning
Pacific Grove
Seal Beach
Coronado
San Mateo
Yuba City
Imperial Beach
Seaside
Chula Vista
Marysville
Westminster
Indio
Orange
Carmel
Los Alamitos
San Francisco
Huntington Beach
Los Altos
Ventura
Huntington Park
National City
Brea
La Mirada
Sacramento
Del Rey Oaks
Napa
Santa Barbara
Lemoore
Pico Rivera
Temple City
Monterey
Sand City
Santa Pa ula

REPORT OF CODE COMMISSION

The Master's Constitution Observance report form was not submitted by all Masters. We believe that their failure to report on this
official Grand Lodge function is a dereliction of their responsibilities as
Masters of their Lodges. This is indicative of the apathy displayed by
some Masters and aids our two greatest enemies of the Constitutionignorance and indifference.
Your Committee repeats the recommendation submitted for the past
three years that this Committee be elevated from that of Special Committee to that of a Standing Committee of the Grand Lodge of
California. It is urged that full consideration be given to this recommendation at the earliest.
This concludes my sixth and final year as a member of the Grand
Lodge Special Committee on Constitution Observance as I am retiring.
I wish to acknowledge the wonderful support and cooperation given by
Grand Master Myron E. Smith throughout the year. My sincere thanks
for my appointment to this Committee and for the honor of serving as
its Chairman.
The success of the past year would not have been possible without
the splendid cooperation of Grand Lodge officers, Inspectors a nd Masters throughout the jurisdiction and my Committee members who have
served me so well. Also my grateful thanks to the Grand Secretary. the
Assistant Grand Secretary and their staff for their much needed guidance and assistance.
Respectfully submitted,
EARL PATT ERSON, JR., Chairman
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

173

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Illness has deprived the Code Commission of its Chairman, Worshipful William Nankervis, Jr. He asked the Grand Master to relieve
him of his duties. The Grand Master, with his usual thoug htfulness.
allowed him to designate the Commission member who was to prepare
the report and thus the responsibility fell on the Vice-Chairman.
Great praise is due Brother Nankervis for his contribution to the
jurisprudence of the California Grand Lodge. He labored long, devotedly and skillfully to bring into being the California Masonic Code
and then to keep it current with annual annotations.
He commenced his work more than 10 years ago when he was
chairman of the committee created to revise the Ross Digest. It was
a happy choice. He possesses a wealth of experience concerning law
books and law editing. His name is know n throughout California as
the official reporter of the decisions of the California Supreme Court
and District Courts of Appeal.
Over the years, all members of the Commission have respected and
admired our Chairman's dispatch and efficiency and have appreciated
his never-failing courtesy and consideration.
The California Masonic Code was first published in 1956. It contained 434 sections, 1118 annotations and 200 pages of index. Cumulative annual pocket parts have been issued each year. The current pocket
portion consists of 88 pages setting forth 240 changes in the law by
repeal. amendment or new sections and annotations. This is almost a
book in itself wil:h a 23 page index.
It is apparent that the numerous changes should be integrated into
the Code. All repealed and superseded material should be eliminated. It
can be accomplished by a reprinting of the book.
When the Code was being planned, the Grand Lodge was told that
the annual pocket parts should keep the code usable for from five to ten
years. We have reached the maximum estimated. It is time to have a
reprinted Code integrating all changes to date. The project may be
expected to take a year, possibly longer. The Codes now outstanding
must be kept current by making pocket parts available to those who do
not desire the convenience of the new integ rated code.
The Commission has one additional recommendation and that is the
printing of a pocket~size inexpensive Code containing the sections of
the law without the cross-references, annotations or detailed index. It
is true that the annotations a.re valuable to the Masonic researcher in
showing the interpretation and application of the law by various Grand
Masters but a simple collection of the constitution and ordinances in
handy form, issued at small expense, would serve a valuable purpose
especially to beginning officers and interested sideliners.

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The publication of a code or annotated code is a self-liquidating
expense which can be funded through the office of the Grand Secretary
in the same manner as other Lodge supplies.
The usual pocket parts will have to be printed following this Communciation, thus keeping all outstanding Codes in working condition.
In the past, a small budget allowance has been set up for the use of
the Commission but we anticipate no travel or other expense during
the coming year and we ask that the allowance be discontinued.
We, therefore recommend as a matter of policy that the Code Commission be authorized to proceed with the publications herein described,
no new books to be released, however, until the contents have been
approved by the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and the Chairman of the Jurisprudence Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
EVERETT HOUSER, Vice Chairman
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The within report is submitted covering the stewardship of the Correspondence Committee of the Grand Lodge for the fiscal year 1965-66.
For the period commencing with the fiscal year 1954-55, and ending
with the fiscal year 1964-65, this Committee, in addition to its functions
of ·r eviewing published proceedings of Foreign Masonic Jurisdictions,
which include Masonic Jurisdictions of the United States, as well as
Masonic Jurisdictions of foreign countries and which are recognized by
the Grand Lodge of California, was responsible for the publication of
the California Freemason. This was an enjoyable task, as we have seen
this quarterly publication develop into one of the finest magazines of
any of the Grand Masonic Jurisdictions and it has been so accepted and
recognized.
We wish to pay our respects to the Grand Master, Myron E. Smith,
the Grand S ecretary, Edward H . Siems and their staff for their cooperation in making possible the reviews. In particular, we wish to pay our
respects to our former Chairman, Newcomb Condee, who is now Editor-in-Chief of the California Freemason, for his advice and counsel.
At the October, 1964, Communication of the California Grand
Lodge, legislation was adopted whereby the Correspondence Committee
was relieved of the responsibility for the publication of the California
Freemason, and this responsibility was placed under the direct supervision of an editorial staff, consisting of the Grand Master, the Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

175

Secretary and an Editor-in-Chief. the latter to be appointed by the
Grand Master. Newcomb Condee, formerly Chairman of the Correspondence Committee, was appointed by the Grand Master as Editorin-Chief.
The Correspondence Committee is now giving its undivided attention to the review of proceedings of Foreign Masonic Jurisdictions, both
those within the territorial confines of the fifty states of the United
States, as well as foreign countries, and which in turn are recognized by
the California Grand Lodge.
There are 49 Masonic Jurisdictions in the United States, including
the District of Columbia, which issue official reports of their annual
proceedings, together with many jurisdictions of some 48 different foreign countries and which are fraternally recognized by the California
Grand Lodge.
Without enumerating the individual jurisdictions issuing annual reports, we are pleased to report that the Correspondence Committee has
reviewed all reports submitted by the various Masonic Jurisdictions to
the California Grand Lodge for the fiscal year 1965-66. These reviews
have in turn been submitted to the Editor-in-Chief for publication in
the California Freemason. Available space has not always permitted the
publication of all reviews submitted.
We trust that the reviews of Foreign Proceedings have been helpful
in editing the California Fteemason. These proceedings have frequently
been used as the basis of articles in the California Fteemason, in addition to the published short reviews.
Some of the •important problems, which are disclosed by a review
of the various Grand Lodge proceedings and have an unusual application
to all Grand Jurisdictions, may be said to be: The preservation of
Freemasonry's fundamental philosophy and landmarks in the light of
constant changes in the 20th Century, some of which are having an impact on Masonry in general and on individual Masonic Lodges in particular; the securing of stronger leadership in the Masonic Lodges to
the end that we can retain as Masons, those, who for various reasons
have neglected to keep their membership in good standing and at the
same time, create a renewed interest by all Masons in their Lodge activities; the welcoming into our Lodges of all Masons in good standing,
many of whom are sojourning Masons from other jurisdictions, but who
for sentimental reasons prefer to retain their original Masonic Lodge
membership in lieu of joining a new Lodge in a different jurisdiction;
making provision for a Masonic Home for senior Masons and their
wives, but who are not indigent. A successful answer to many of these
problems will remove the present vagueness of purpose in all too many
Masonic Lodges. These, as well as other activities of the Masonk Jurisdictions, are brought to the attention of the readers of the California
Freemason, many of whom are sojourning Masons.

176

PROCEED INGS OP THE

We are constant ly trying to improve on these reviews and we welcome any and all construc tive suggestio ns which will increase the
readers' interest.
We are making no request for any financial appropri ation by Grand
Lodge for the ensuing Masonic fiscal year.
Respectf ully submitte d,
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR .. Chairman
Finance.
on
ee
Committ
to
Referred

REPOR T OF CALIF ORNIA FREEM ASON
PUBLI CATIO N BOARD
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. o A. M. of California:
The publication and distribut ion of the California Freemason is administere d by a board comprise d of the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, and the Editor-in -Chief who is appointe d by the Grand Master.
During the past year the magazin e has been issued quarterly and
distribut ed to all Californ ia members and to a certain number of paying
subscrib ers who do not belong to Lodges in this State.
Publicati on for the next fiscal year will require a per capita of about
35 cents. The figures for the past year will be found in the Auditor' s
Report. The auditor and the Editor-in -Chief have furnished the Finance
Committ ee with the pertinen t informat ion and figures for the forthcom ing budget.
There is $4000 in the reserve for unexpire d subscript ions. This
serves no purpose under the present arrangem ent and should be applied
to the deficit for last year.
Respectf ully submitte d,
NEWCOM B CoNDEE, Editor-i n-Chief
y
MYRON E. SMITH, Grand Master EDWARD H. SIEMS, Grand Secretar
Referred to Committ ee on Finance.

GRAND ORATI ON
"THER E IS NO REST FOR A MESSE NGER TILL
THE MESSA GE IS DELIVE RED"
WARREN

J. BLOMSETH, GRAND ORATOR

Most Worship ful Sir. Honored Past Grand Masters,
Grand Lodge Officers and Member s, Distingu ished Guests and
Visitors, My Brethren All:
During this Masonic year it has been my privilege and great personal honor to serve at the will and pleasure of the Grand Master. And
at each ceremon y I have been asked to specify the duty of my office.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

177

The: ritual provided my response and served as a constant reminder that
my prime assignme nt and responsib ility was, and is, the preparat ion
and tradition al delivery of the Grand Oration.
In accepting this office twelve months ago, I would confess that my
personal thoughts were poig~antly expresse d in t~?t weII known phrase
"Fools rush in where wise men fear to tread.
· · ·But, then, there can be no new experience without a certain amount
of risk. and if you please, a certain willingne ss to fail. For generally in
a new venture one finds little encourag ement in unsuppo rted and untried confidence.
But, as a magnificent contrast, in the work of Masonry we find
abundan t support and ·r einforcem ent. We discover anew that our faith
is founded upon an unwaver ing trust and confidence in the guiding force
of the universe , the Great Creator, who spake us into being. We learn
anew that the Supreme Architec t extends his beneficent grace to compensate weaknes s and to give strength and to spare when we are employed in useful and producti ve labor.
"For Such A Time As This", I was more than willing to accept the
challeng e and unequale d opportun ity to serve in one of the most rewarding assignme nts in all of Masonry .
In addition, and as unearned bonus. I was well aware that acceptance of this office would assure the continua nce of a dose associati on
with our Grand Master. An association which has included many miles
of travel, many hours of conversa tion and of breaking bread , and of
observin g him at labor in the vineyard s of Masonry . And the travel. the
conversa tion. and the observat ion have left an indelible mark of pure
inspiration. And who among us has not. in like manner, been inspired
by our Most Worship ful?
On behalf of the Grand Lodge Officers and Member s and of every
Master Mason in this jurisdiction, let the record show that our Grand
Master has proven himself to be (in his own words of admoniti on to the
craft) "possess ed with a consumin g concern for the welfare of othus"
and (in the language of his brethren ) "an elegant Christian gentlema n."
Thacker ay gives us a fitting definition: "To be a gentlema n is to be honest, to be gentle, to be generous , to be wise. and possessin g all those
qualities to exercise them in the most graceful outward manner." Such
a man is our Grand Master, Myron English Smith, truly. "an eleganl
Christian gentlema n."
I sincerely trust that he has found this officer's endeavo r acceptab le
and, if so. the credit shall rest with his continua l inspiratio n and magnificent leadershi p.
To borrow from the modern idiom, I have been " inflight" in Masonry just fourteen and one-half years. And when I view those highly
qualified. experien ced and distingui shed brethren who have held this
office before me. I am reminded of my youth and of my many deficien-

178

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

179

PROCEEDINGS O P THE

cies. And could not nor would not proceed with this present trust were
it not for the previously cited reasons and for the constant encouragement of my brethren, supported, as it were, by the declaration of William Pitt that eloquence is to be found "in the assembly, not merely in
the speaker."
I have selected as the title of this oration a single sentence from the
writings of Joseph Conrad: "There is no rest for a messenger till the
message is delivered."
The dominant theme woven throughout the literary works of Joseph
Conrad is the demoralizing effect of isolation. We. of the fraternity of
Free and Accepted Masons. can sympathize with Conrad's major characters, who sought to dispel loneliness in a vast sea of isolation, for we
are a society built upon the firm foundation of fellowship. We approached the door of Masonry as strangers, we entered as friends and
we became brothers in a world-wide society of men who possess like
knowledge and understanding. Fellowship is the very cement which
enables us to act in concert in the labor of ac<:omplishing Masonry's
one great and glorious goal-the Brotherhood of Man under the Fatherhood of God. And when this goal has been attainted both isolation and
loneliness will have disappeared.
For the next several minutes let us join in exploring and sharing
several immediate messages. As we proceed, it is essential that we
evaluate today's messages in the bright light of Masonry's ultimate and
supreme message, as we find it in the "emblem of truth overflowing",
the rule and guide of our faith, the open book upon our altar. Likewise,
that we keep in mind Emerson's provocative observation that "God offers every mind its choice between truth and repose."
Inasmuch as we are herein assembled as the Grand Lodge of California, it is appropriate that we select one of the implements of Operative Masonry to guide and to limit our discourse. The most suitable
implement seems to be the compass-that tool generally used to inscribe
360 degrees, with 32 points of division, and four cardinal points to mark
the direction of east, west, north and south. In Operative Masonry it is
that implement used for the admeasurement of the architect's plans, to
give those just proportions which assure beauty, as well as stability.
And in Speculative Masonry the compass is that implement most symbolic of virtue, the true and only measure of a Mason's life and conduct.
Let us figuratively pick up the compass that we might trace a few
lines upon the trestleboard of our understanding, to inscribe the four
cardinal points and a like number of messages. What shall constitute
today's messages? What are the messages that would be carried, without rest, to the point of delivery on this occasion?

THE FIRST MESSAGE-THE CARDINAL POINT EAST
A SOCIETY WITH SECRETS
One of the ma jor problems of our fraternity since its inception has
been how best to erase from the mind of the general public the idea
that Freemasonry is a secret society. Our great and beloved fraternity
was never designed to be in a ny sense a secret organization. T aken to
the extrem,e, to emphasize this very point, an American patriot, writer,
diplomat. signer of the Declaration of Independence, and a Past Grand
Master of Pennsylvania, W orshipful Brother Benjamin Franklin, stated
in one of his publications (just prior to his acceptance into the craft )
that Masonry's, " Grand Secret is that they have no Secret at all."
Certainly if this statement were true for the profane in Franklin 's day,
225 years ago, there is even less about the Masonic fraternity today that
is "secret."
Witness our well marked halls and temples (this debt-free California Masonic Memorial Temple. in particular): our lapel pins; our rings;
our announcements in the press; our numerous public ceremonies; our
magnificent homes at Union City and Covina (which inform the world
that the fraternity is ever mindful of the needs of those less for tunate ) :
and finally, the thousands-upon-tho usands of volumes of books , stories,
and articles (favorable and unfavorable) written upon every aspect of
Freemasonry and which can be found in every book store and libra ry in
the free world.
Obviously, what our good Brother Ben Franklin had in mind, and
rightly so, was to confirm that Masonry's membership, time and place
of meeting, activities, purpose and principles are well publicized and can
surely be well known to anyone having the slightest interest.
We were conceived, and remain to this day, an institution laboring
among men for the moral and social advancement of the whole human
family. If this be our purpose. and it is, then, how essential it is that we
carry the message to the profane, to the uninitiated, and to the entire
world that Freemasonry is not a secret society.
Undoubtedly the confusion on this point can be traced to our ri tual.
to our modes of recognition (whereby one of us may know another) ,
and to the private and confidential business of our tiled meetings. But
each of these is simply the universal secrecy which is recognized the
world over : that secrecy of the lawyer to his client, the minister to his
penitent, the physician to his patient, or of a friend to a friend. I t is
that trustworthy confidence which is present in every valuable rela tionship and is one of the foundations of the glory of man. W ithout it family, business. national and international rela tions would be imperiled, if
not destroyed.
Truly. the "secrecy" which Masonry maintains is that which is

180

181

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

practiced by all worthy individuals and is intended only to safeguard
the institution and to ensure its proper security.

Under the aegis of these two programs we endeavor to protect, secure, appreciate and understand the Constitution of the United States,
and to achieve and maintain widespread support for our free public
schools.
To describe these two Masonic programs in the simplest terms, we
annually make use of Brother Rudyard Kipling's six honest serving
men: their names, as you will remember, are-Where and What and
Why and How and Who and When.
You might well ask why we need be reminded every year, year after
year, decade after decade, of the necessity of supporting our free public
schools or of understanding our Constitution. The answer can be found
in the wisdom of a child's definition-"memory is the thing I forget
with!"
Unless we are constantly compelled to remember, we all too soon
forget, or what is far worse-we take it for granted-we assume. that
free schools and constitutional government are everybody's business and
therefore need not be our concern-and in a brief span of history, too
minute to measure, they become nobody's business-and they are gone.
The freedom we now enjoy was not easily won nor will it be so easy
to retain. Freedom demands of us the very best we have to give. And if
we would protect and secure our precious heritage, this free society, we
must willingly heed the advise of Episcopal Reverend Phillips Brooks,
who over 70 years ago delivered a prayer for all liberty loving people,
in these words:
"Do not pray for easy lives,
Pray to be stronger men.
Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers,
Pray for powers equal to your tasks."
Duty and responsibility must be constantly exercised by each and
every citizen or apathy will abruptly separate us from our precious freedom. Have we really delivered this message throughout our jurisdiction?
Can we rest till we have done so?

We are. then, a society possessing certain secrets, but not now nor
have we ever been a secret society.
Masonry has nothing to hide from the general public, it has no secrets beyond its rightful responsibility to confidentially conduct its private business. And there is a very valid reason why we must, each one
of us. deliver this message to all with whom we come in contact. I find
these few lines of Seneca's provide a comprehensive explanation:
"I will govern my life and my thoughts as if all
the world were to see the one and to read the
other; For what does it signif,y to make a secret
to my neighbor, when to God all our privacies
are open."
My brethren, the meaningful and significant work of Freemasonry
can not be accomplished without the aid and assistance of all right
thinking men. Masonry's one great, ambitious dream - the Brotherhood
of Man - Under the Fatherhood of God - rests upon the principle
of maximum participation. Is this not our first and most important message to all mankind? Can we rest till this message is delivered?
THE SECOND MESSAGE-THE CARDINAL POINT WEST
TO BE FREEMASONS
This current Masonic year our Grand Master has on several occasions reminded us of the significant fact that as a Grand Lodge and
through our constituent lodges we move into the public square and ask
for support with regard to two and only two Masonic programs: Public
Schools Week and Constitution Observance. What is the message here
that we would convey and why does it concern Masonry?
There is neither time nor opportunity this afternoon to trace the
birth and development of Freemasonry. But let us pause and note the
unquestionable fact that the process of evolution from Operative to
Speculative Masonry could only come from and with the great surge of
national endeavor which brought liberty to mankind at the end of the
Dark Ages. As our very name suggests, Freemasonry, in itself, embraces a desire to be and to remain free.
As we study the history of our fraternity, we are impressed timeand-again with the prerequisite of liberty. And when we have thoroughly
learned this lesson, we will have come to understand much, if not most
of the meaning of the free in Freemasonry. Hence. the undeniable importance of both our Constitution Observance and Public Schools We.ek
Programs.

THE THIRD MESSAGE---THE CARDINAL POINT SOUTH
INDIVIDUAL CRAFfSMEN

It has been said that '', .. a man's ideal like his horizon, is constantly receding from him as he advances toward it." So it is for every Master Mason, so it is for Masonry, and for all of mankind. But, here again,
Freemasonry possesses a most significant message. one which, tends to
elude each of us as we: translate our Masonic teachings into our daily
lives. It is the message of individual craftsmen.
The entire philosophy of Freemasonry is built around the individual
-the: erection of a moral edifice within the heart of a single man. All
our symbolism is pointed to the individual; all our traditions and prac-

182

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP Cl\LIPO.RNJA

tices are aimed solely at making individuals wiser, better and thus happier.
I have always found this single sentence of that eminent Master
Mason, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, to express in just seventeen
words, one of the most beautiful summaries of what we must do to earn
and warrant the title of brethren of the ancient craft: "Life is a quarry,
out of which we are to mold and chisel and complete a character." And
as a companion we might well add Michelangelo's lesson to the craftsmen: "The more the marble wastes, the more the statue grows."
If the objective of Masonry be the construction of moral edifices
within the hearts of men; if the objective of Masonry be thus centered
upon the individual-one man at a time; if such be our objective, then,
each one of us, alone, but well attended, must answer for himself that
ever-present question-"What is Freemasonry?"
As a reply, or if you will, as a personal message we might answer
that burning question as follows:
I belong to the fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons, which
encompasses the world within its walls; that can and does claim
the great and good men of every level of society; that discovers
with joy the gold in every creed; and floods with light and love
the goodness within every man.
Is it possible to "mold and chisel and complete a character" without
-concomitantly delivering a like message? Can there be. any rest for a
Masonic messenger till he has first formulated and then delivered his
personal message?
THE FOURTH AND FINAL MESSAGETHE CARDINAL POINT NORTH
THE SPREADING OF LIGHT
"No man, of woman born, coward or brave, can shun his destiny."
So spoke Homer in the 10th century B.C. What of Masonry's destiny?
What does the future hold for the true and trusty craftsman? Would
that one among us could respond for all. But any meaningful and lasting answer must come from the aggregate response of every Master
Mason.
How might we best respond? Let us begin with a single word to
guide our future acts as members of this great fraternity, :rnd let that
one word be enthusiasm. Emerson set forth its value as, "Every great
and commanding movement in the annals of the world is the triumph
of enthusiasm - Nothing great was ever achieved without it." Seeley
put it another way: "No virtue is safe that is not enthusiastic."
There is a story that became a legend in its time. A story that has
been told as happening in the Napoleonic Wars, although also reported
as having taken place in the American Civil War. Actually its origin is
of little import. It tells of a youth, too young to fight but who possessed

183

enthusiasm and devotion in such abundance that he was designated to
carry the regimental banner. During a bitter battle his unit advanced
slowly under heavy enemy attack. But his zeal carried him so far ahead
of the regiment that he was soon beyond hailing distance. His commanding officer sent a runner with the message - "Bring the standard back
to the line." The lad sent back the ringing reply - "Bring the line up
to the standard."
That particular story brings to mind with crystal clarity the advise
to our young Republic by Worshipful George Washington, in his Farewell Address: "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest
may repair.'' There can be no doubt that he would have wished his fellow Masons to find equal sustenance in his counsel!
Who among us can now envision the vast expanse of Freemasonry's
future attainments, if every Master Mason would but respond to the
challenge to "Bring the line up to the standard?"
My brethren, we are too deeply indebted to the founding fathers of
Freemasonry to accept in unthinking ingratitude what we have inherited.
Let us, each and every member of this great and good fraternity,
expand (if we now possess} or acquire (if we now lack) both a higher
opinion of ourselves and of Freemasonry - that we might travel forward on the firm faith of our convictions. Thus. and only thus, can we
assure that tomorrow will also witness its Masonic messengers!
Earlier, we figuratively picked up the compass that we might trace a
few lines upon the trestleboard to encompass, deliniate and mark four
messages:
The Cardinal Point East A fraternity possessing certain secrets - not a secret society;
The Cardinal Point West A fraternity exercising duty and responsibility in order to be and
to remain free;
The Cardinal Point South A fraternity of individual craftsmen:
The Cardinal Point North A fraternity employing dedicated and enthusiastic labor to ensure that its present and future attainments will ever reflect its
glorious past.
It is now time to close the compass, that implement most symbolic of
virtue, the true and only measure of a Mason's life and conduct, and to
return it to its proper place. May we do so with this observation: "There
are two ways of spreading light - to be the candle or the mirror that
reflects it."
The Grand Oration was received with a standing ovation.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to have printed
copies of the oration made available to the members of Grand Lodge.

184

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE
ON MASONIC EDUCATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In addition to the type of activity which has been followed by this
Committee during previous years. a new assignment has been given
them in 1966. Under date of March 29 the Grand Master assigned to
this Committee the authority to "promote and correlate the work of the
Research Lodges." Part of the responsibility set forth in the Grand
Master's directive covered the reviewing of all material intended for
publication by the four Lodges involved.
The first step toward meeting this new responsibility was a planning
session at which the principle officers of the Research Lodges, with
members of this Committee, set up a schedule of guide lines. The steps
agreed upon were recorded as the procedures to be followed. A copy of
these "Procedures" is attached to this report as a matter of record.
The objective of the Committee during the past year, in the furthering of general educational activity, has been to emphasize the value of
greater knowledge of the fraternity to our newer members. At the same
time, older members have always been welcome to participate. We feel
that the holding of a number of group meetings and the formation and
encouragement of study groups under the leadership of Lodge chairmen
has measured gratifying progress in this field. Material for the use of
Study Groups has been forwarded to Group Chairmen with a letter encouraging them to seek further assistance from this Committee. We are
highly appreciative of the co-operation given us in promoting this part
of our activity.
The officers of the R~search Lodges have been very helpful in forwarding material which they contemplated publishing in accordance
with the established time schedule and in accepting the decisions of the
Committee where alteration or rejection of submitted material was necessary.
The reviewing of material submitted has involved a large volume of
correspondence. The help given the Committee by the Grand Lodge
office in meeting this situation is sincerely appreciated. Our thanks go
to the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and the courteous and competent members of their staff.
We suggest that consideration be given to appropriating, for the
work of the Committee during the coming year, the sum of $2.000.00
plus such additional amount as will be required to cover enlarged activities which may be assigned to them.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY D. OLIPHANT, Chairman
Referred to Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

185

Following Are:
PROCEDURES APPLYING TO THE DIRECTIVE ISSUED BY
THE GRAND MASTER UNDER DATE OF MARCH 29, 1966

The following details were fully discussed and mutually agreed
upon o~ April 23, 1966, by members of the Grand Lodge Committee on
Masonic Education (hereafter referred to as "the Committee") meeting
with representatives of the four Research Lodges (hereafter referred
to as "the Lodges").
( 1) No correspondence with the office of another Grand Jurisdiction shall be initiated by one of the Lodges, or by any member thereof,
except as based upon specific approval received from the Committee.
( 2} No material shall be published by one of the Lodges, either as
a separate paper or as part of a routine mailing. until such material has
been submitted to the Committee and approval thereof has been received
fro~ t?e ~ommittee. The term "published" applies to any material
which 1s prmted or otherwise duplicated for circulation and which can
in any way, be interpreted to indicate an opinion which is advanced a~
being M~so~i~ in. charact.er or as being held by a Masonic group as
such. This hm1tatlon applies particularly to statements of a religious or
political nature.
The above limitations do not apply to:
Correspondence from an individual member of one of the
Lodges forwarded to an individual member in another Jurisdiction.
Correspondence from one of the Lodges to a similar Lodge or
group u1 another Jurisdiction.
Published notices of meeting places and dates.
Schedules of available Papers.
Schedules of Masonic subjects for which speakers from the
Lodges are available.
Obituaries, notices of special events or similar items which do
not reflect a Masonic opinion.
( ~) The ro~tine for. approval, disapproval. or correction of any
submitted matenal shall include the. following steps:
. (a} E.ach of the Lodges shall have an official Screening Com~
m1ttee which shall review and clear all material before that material
may ~e forwarded for approval by the Committee. This screening
~ha!! 1~clude complete editing for spelling, punctuation and proper
md1catmg and crediting for any quoted material.
( b) Material shall be forwarded to the chairman of the Committee in triplicate and should be in his hands three weeks in ad~
vance of the time scheduled for being given to the printer.
( c} Material submitted for approval will be reviewed by at reast
two members of the Committee.
( d) After being reviewed by the Committeemen one copy of the

186

PROCEEDINGS OP TIIE

material will be returned with approval. or disapproval, and any
suggested corrections noted thereon. This reviewing and return will
be handled with all possible promptness. In extreme cases where the
question of the propriety of the submitted material is in doubt, the
materia l a nd question raised thereby will be submitted by the Committee to the Grand Master, or a Grand Officer designated by him ,
for fin al decision.
( e) One copy of the submitted material in the same form as
returned with approval, or disapproval. and any suggested corrections will be forwarded, by the chairman of the Committee, to the
Grand Secretary for his files.
( 4) Material published by the Lodges prior to the issuing of the
March 29th directive is not subject to the review procedures covered
herein.
( 5) The sale of Research Papers and other Research material at
the Annual Communication is to be discontinued.
( 6) The display of Research Papers and other Research material
may be continued at the Annual Communication and forms may be
made available for future ordering and shipment of such items. it being
understood that any payments of cost involved are not to be collected
at the Annual Communication.
( 7) No objection is made to continuing the program of Research
Lodge members addressing individual Lodge meetings, when requested
to do so, but only approved material may be presented as being given
under Research auspices. Any other material presented on such occasions must be indicated as the personal views of the speaker, even
though he identifies himself as being a member of a Research Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC CEMETERIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Cemeteries respectfully submits this annual report of their activities for the Masonic Year 1965-66.
We feel it wise each year to restate briefly for those new in attendance at Grand Lodge the purposes of this continuing committee. Our
duty is to care for those cemeteries under the direct care of the Grand
Lodge namely; Columbia State Park C emetery. Ja mestown Cemetery
a nd Fiddletown Cemetery. When called to our attention . we work w ith
indi vid ual Lodges where cemetery care problems exist and endeavor to
work out plans so the Lodges can care for them in a proper manner. We
see that any areas set aside in public cemeteries. for the exclusive use
of M asons. do not in their formation deviate from our laws with respect
to commercialism. On request, we recommend to the Grand Master for
his approval or disapproval with respect to propriety and conformity to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

Masonic law, any monuments or altars erected in such areas in public
cemeteries.
The activities of the committee will in this report be presented in
the order outlined above.
Columbia State Park Cemetery is under the Supervision of Committee member Marcel M. Baer of Sonora . Brother Baer has, for the
last two years, been able to have the work in the cemetery done by the
local group of the Future Farmers of America in the Sonora High
School. The committee wishes, in this annual record of activities, to expressly thank this group for their interest and cooperation in keeping
this historic spot in excellent condition for the public's enjoyment. You
will note. however, that in our budget request for the coming fiscal year,
we ask for sufficient funds to have any work at Columbia done through
conventional channels. This is necessary as we do not know how long
we can have the help of the Future Farmers of America group as their
plans change from school year to school year. Details of the work
anticipated for this cemetery during 1966- 1967 include, in addition to
the usual spraying for weeds and general care. the repainting of the
picket fence that surrounds the site. Doing this at this time will greatly
prolong the fence's useful life. Our budget request for Columbia this
year. including the $325 bid for painting the fence, is $75 less than last
year 's requirement.
Jamestown Cemetery, a lso under Brother Baer's supervision, was
rehabilitated during this last year. From an overgrown jungle of brush
and weeds, in which very little semblance of a cemetery could be discerned, has emerged another Mother Lode cemetery of historic value
that is a credit to Masonry. The site has been cleared and fencedheadstones have been repaired and replaced- aisles and paths outlined
and the entire plot presents a picturesque setting for Mother Lode
tourists. This year, a small amount of additional restorative work is
being asked for from Grand Lodge. W e would like to gravel the road
and aisles and erect a proper sign. When this has been done future
work will consist of general care at nominal cost. Our budget this year
requests sufficient funds to do this work and for general care. However,
with major work completed, our budget request is $940 less than last
year.
The cemetery at Fiddletown is under the supervision of committee
member Adrian Taylor of River Pines. Brother Taylor has worked hard
for several years to bring this cemetery to the condition it now presents
to the public. A small amount of additional repair work to headstones
and curbs remains to be done. A new gate to make accessible the lower
section of the cemetery is our only new construction requested for this
year. We do not foresee any further major construction for Fiddletown.
Our budget request this year is, therefore, $400 less than the 1965-1966

188

amount and we hope that future expenditures will be nominal and only
for general care and upkeep.
In our report last year we requested and received permission from
Grand Lodge to seek title to the historic cemetery at Red Dog. Red Dog,
east of Grass Valley, is adjacent to the largest collective hydraulic mine
in the world. The cemetery, about an acre in extent, is visited by people
from all over the world as evidenced by the guest book that has been
kept on the site by an interested brother, Lesslie Woodworth of nearby
Cedar Ridge. We were authorized by Grand Lodge last year to expend
up to $1000 in ·restoring this cemetery, providing absolute title was
given Grand Lodge and an access road provided. We also, with this
$1000, were given permission to place cement pads under headstones
at two other sites.
Title to Red Dog has not been given us as, while the owner is in
sympathy with our project, the property is for sale and he feels that
we should deal with the new owner. Our committee feels so sincerely
that restoration is desirable that we again, this year, are asking for permission and a budgeted amount to continue this work. Permission for
the cement pads was obtained and the work is scheduled, therefore the
request for Red Dog has been scaled down to eight hundred dollars.
Your committee respectfully requests that Grand Lodge at this time
again sanction this work.
Our other two committee members-Brother Harold C. Schroeder
in Sacramento and Brother G. Basil Gordon, Jr.. in Glendora-have
not had any problems arise in their areas and therefore have no individual reports for the Grand Lodge. As chairman, however, in compiling
this report I would like, if I may, to thank them for their cooperation and
help when called upon.
This year we have not been called upon to recommend sanctioning
of the formation of any areas in public cemeteries set aside for the exclusive use of Masons, nor have we been advised of any construction
projects in already established areas and therefore have not had to
review the erection of any monuments or altars.
We were asked by the Grand Secretary to investigate, for the Grand
Master, a reported difference of opinion in one of the Lodges with respect
to cemetery matters. After several meetings with brethren of the Lodge
associated with the cemetery management, and attendance at one stated
meeting, we feel that all issues were aired in a proper manner and that
the final decision of the assembled brethren was a fair and just one and
reflected honor on the Lodge and the Craft.
Our budget request for the fiscal year 1966-1967 to carry out the
work detailed in the foregoing report is as follows:

189

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
COLUMBIA:

Spraying and weed killing .................................... $ 100.00
85.00
Spray material ..................................................... .
15.00
Lock for main gate................................................
Paint picket fence.................................................. 325.00
Incidental expenses ............................................ .. 100.00
$ 625.00
JAMESTOWN:

Spraying and weed killing .................................. $
Spray materials -----------·--------------·--------------"··--··--·
Construction and installing sign ..........................
Rock and gravel walks and drive ........................
Incidental expenses ..............................................

100.00
85.00
100.00
400.00
100.00

$ 785.00
F100LETOWN:

Spraying, removal of leaves and branches.......... $ 180.00
Remove small trees disrupting graves ................. . 100.00
Install driveway gate to lower area ..................... . 200.00

$ 480.00
RED DoG (providing Grand Lodge approves) .......... $ 800.00
Annual request for general committee expenses...... $ 275.00
TOTAL AMOUNT REQUESTED ...................... $2,965.00
We wish to thank Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith, Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and his office staff, and all others who have
been so very helpful to this committee in its work during the past year.
Respectfully submitted,
BALLARD WHITE, JR .. Chairman
Referred to Committe on Finance.

REPORT OF BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Both interest in the library and museum and the use of the former
continue to increase - slowly, it is true, but steadily.
An interesting feature is the interest in our library expressed by
visitors from England and from Australia. Several brethren have told
us that their friends, who had previously visited us, urged them by all
means to visit our library and museum.
Visitors signing the register in the library this year numbered 1647

190

191

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

and this figure would be much higher except that many who come into
the .temple register downstairs and fail to register agai n with us. Also,
?unng. Grand Lodge, so many brethren throng into the library it is
1mposs1bl~ t~ make. contact with each one and ask him to register.
Als.o'. it is obviously impossible to estimate the number of persons
who visit the Te~~le for concerts and other affairs and inspect our
museum cases but 1t 1s unquestionably in the thousands.

can borrow books from it. Nevertheless. we did mail out this year 146
books to inquirers and in addition assisted a number in looking up references; also, in some cases we did original research for inquirers and
sent them copies of items relating to subjects about which they inquired.
The library now has a total of 2983 volumes and brochures. but
greatest use is made of the limited number o f books listed in the "book
list" which is handed everyone who registers in the library.

AcQUISJTIONs

STA FFING THE L 113RARY

This was a healthy year for acquisitions, both for the library and
for the museum.
Books added during the year were 313, of which 86 were gifts
·
Brochures added were 152, almost all of them gifts and principally f
rom
Brother Leslie Woodworth.
~utstanding among acquisitions were 16 volumes from the coll~ctio~ of our late Most Worshipful Brother Leon 0. Whitsell, gift of
his widow;
A copy in good condition of Manley P. Hall's monumental study
of ancient philosophies, purchased;
Every available book in English dealing with the Dead Sea scrolls
-all of which, incidentally, may be borrowed by the brethren ; a nd
Several volumes principally of use to students and researchers.
Museum acq uis itions o f outstanding quality included:
A presenta tion gave~ used by_ ~rand Master Whitsell in conducting
Grand Lod_ge. an~ also m the r~tsmg of his two sons, with other items
from the distmg~1shed Brother s collection, all gifts of Mrs. Whitsell;
. ~ost W orshipful Brother Whitsell's official apron, also a gift f
o
his widow ;

We continue to have difficulty in staffing the library. Brother William H. Scott covers this detail on W ednesday; Brother Arthur Simpson
on Tuesdays and Brother M arshall Young on Sundays and Thursdays.
Brother William H. McMaster continues. as he has for several years
past, to act as our efficient cataloger. None of these men is a member
of Grand Lodge and one is not even a member of a California Lodge.
They are serving freely and without compensation. The Library Commission expresses its appreciation to them and hopes it may shortly
be able to find others to staff the library on Mondays. Fridays and
Saturdays.

The apron and collar of Past Grand Master Asa Hankerson of
Washington ;

Eigh~ medals from Brother L. H . E. Lethbridge of New M"lt
1
on,
Hampshire:

A_ ~arge nur:ib~r of Masonic jewels and medals from F . C . Sams here,
a British provmc1al Grand Lodge officer residing in U xbridge, Middle~ex and, from the same source, a Grand Lodge certificate issued
durmg t~e term in office of the Earl of Zetland, whose Wedgwood bust
we have m the library.
The number of Masonic certificates and aprons received from
California sources is far too large to list here.
U sE OP LrBRARY

~~ regret to repo~t that our own brethren still seem to lack ap~reoat'.on of the service~ and facilities available through our own
library, by far too many either do not realize we have one, or that they

FI NANCIAL

Ever since we began operations as a museum it has been planned to
place a third case on the second floor . adjacen t to those already there.
and this year the Commission voted to ask your appropriation of a sum
sufficient therefor. Because our installation has become a showpiece for
the suppliers, the Library Bureau of Remington Rand-Univac, they
have quoted us a· price for such a case, exactly like those previously
installed, at the same figure we paid two years ago. This notwithstand~
ing that the price has gone up some $200 in the meantime. We now
ask appropriation of $2.315. plus C alifornia tax of $92.60 for such a
case. This includes freight and installation.
Last year Grand Lodge granted us $1.250 for operating expenses.
This year, expenses are obviously higher and we also want to add additional library aids whose bus fares and lunches we pay. We also feel
we should be acquiring more books. On this account we are asking
increases in these two sections of our budget, so that the total for operating expenses will be $1 ,450 as against $1,250 last year.
A summary and comparison for the two years follows:
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

1965-66
Museum cases .............................................. None
plus tax

1966-67
$2,315.00
92.60
$2,407.60

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

OPERATING EXPENDITURES

Printing and circularizing ......................$
Librarian's expense ............................. .
Supplies and postage..............................
Purchase of books ..................................
Miscellaneous and contingent..............

150.00
500.00
100.00
350.00
150.00

$ 150.00
600.00
100.00
450.00
150.00

$1,250.00

$1,450.00
$3,870.60

GRAND Total ......................... ................. $1,250.00
LOOKING AHEAD

. Your Library has now been in nominal existence for nine years, and
m actual operation for s even. We say "nominal" because when we
started we ~ad nothing of a physical plant and it was necessary not only
to create this but to overcome the opposition of some brethren who felt
other Grand Lodges were so far ahead of us that we should not even
try to establish a library.
We may comment on this that South Carolina, a considerably older
Grand Lodge than our o':""n· is even now inaugurating its Library and
we have been flattered with a request from it for information.
Your Commission is of opinion that in time to come, in spite of the
loss of a valuable nucleus collected by Grand Secretary Abell in 1907
we have an opportunity to expand and develop a Library in this Grand
Lodge which will be second to none. Certainly not all Grand Lodges
~ave, ~s we have, a complete flle of all American Grand Lodge proceedmgs sm_ce 1850: These thousands of volumes are not included in the
figure given earlier.
It is o~r hope and ambition that you will continue the support accorded us m the past to the end that we, or our successors, may be able
before too many ~ears to say to you, "See what a magnificent establishment has been built ~~ an operating expense of only about one-half cent
per member per year.
APPRECIATION

We should like to express our appreciation to our Most Worshipful G~and Secretary and his staff for helpfulness and consideration in
every mstance where we have asked for assistance.
~ikewise we have received many courtesies from Brother George D.
Gavm, Man~ger of this great Temple, and his staff. They have been
most helpful m many ways.
Respect£ ully submitted,
DAVID R. LANE, Chairman
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, aqd
on
Finance.

193

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON DeMOLAY
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
It is gratifying to report that the Order of DeMolay is in fine shape
in the State of California. Great interest and much wholesome activity
is being evidenced. Although we find a great deal with which to be
pleased, we must note that the program is being carried out by relatively
a handful of very dedicated men and with inadequate financing. More
leadership and better financing could be used to great advantage.
Intelligent interest and support have been given by the Grand Master, Most Worshipful M y ron E . Smith, and his corps of officers. This
is deeply appreciated by those active in DeMolay .
The Order of DeMolay, being still young in years. having been
founded less than fifty years ago in Kansas City, has done well in
building better citizens. We know that throughout the world some
three million young men have knelt at DeMola'Y altars . We know that
a large percentage of these young men have become Master Masons
and leaders within their communities. It is also known that some sixty of
these young men have become Grand Masters of Grand Lodges.
In 1965, in our last ·r eport to you, the DeMolay Committee recommended that a special committee be appointed to study, in depth, and
make recommendations concerning some six specific needs of DeMolay.
With the strong interest being shown by appendant Masonic bodies
throughout the United States and particularly in California, your committee is pleased to learn that such a special committee is in the process
of being formulated by the Grand Master.
The DeMolay Committee feels that it has been fortunate in meeting with so many fine young people at their conferences and conventions. We also have had the privilege to witness the young boy who
has petitioned DeMolay and hearing him pledged to the Seven C ardinal
Virtues of DeMolay: Filial Love. Reverence, Courtesy, Comradeship.
Cleanliness and Patriotism.
In order to better assist these fine young men in bridging the gap
from boyhood into manhood, we strongly recommend a program of
action and support. With such additional action and support DeMolay
could easily double in strength and effectiveness. The individual members of this committee welcome the opportunity to meet with you and
your group to discuss the va rious aspects of DeMolay and perhaps
assist in having a DeMolay chapter exemplify one of its degrees before
your group. You are cordially invited to observe or attend the following:
Northern California DeMolay Convention, Sacramento - November 25-26, 1966.
DeMolay Traffic Safety Week (In co-operation with the California H ighway Patrol) - October 23-29. 1966.
DeMolayWe ek-March 12-18. 1967.

194

195

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Southern California DeMolay Convention - September 2. 3 &
4, 1967.
DeMolay Day at the California State Fair - September 9, 1967.
Your committee wishes to say "THANK YOU" for a job well
done by the various DeiMolay Chapters and their advisors, especially
for their fine support during special observations, notably Public Schools
Week, Constitutional observances and other public functions.
The DeMolay Committee wishes to thank the Grand Master, Most
Worshipful Myron E. Smith, for his active support of this committee
and its work. The Grand Secretary always had an open door to us. His
advice and guidance is appreciated.
We recommend and have requested from the Committee on Finance
a budget of Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ( $750.00) for the work
of the committee for next year.
To each of you. thanks for your generous help and co-operation.

It is regretted that the Sojourner potential has not been recognized in
many areas and that so little effort has been expended to exploit that
po ten tia I.
We realize, in some areas, the Sojourners are few and far between,
but in most areas dilligent prospecting can and has produced surprising
results. The old saying, "You can lead a horse to water but you cannot
make him drink," applies in the quest for Sojourners. After the Sojourner is located and is invited to visit, a favorable climate must be
offered, for as stated in the 1963 Report of the Special Commission on
Masonic Practices, a favorable climate must be created to attract and
hold the visiting brethren as well as our own.
A study of Exhibit "A," attached, reveals that a favorable climate
has been created in many areas. The most productive areas were. not
limited to the metropolitan centers but included farming, mountain and
desert communities; communities where inspiration and encouragement, provided by Committeemen and Inspectors, has produced remarkable results.
Many of our Lodges had outstanding Sojourner affiliation records
during 1966, the most notable being: Consuelo No. 325 and Home
No. 721 with 12 each. These two Lodges were cited for outstanding
records in 1963, 1964 and 1965. A wonderful example of continuity of
effort. These Lodges are to be especially congratulated.
The following Lodges were cited in 1965 and again merit special
mention for their affiliations this year: Los Angeles No. 42 - 9; El
Cajon Valley No. 576 and Menorah No. 623 with 6 each and Ionic
No. 520 with 5. •
The following Lodges merit special mention for their affiliations
during 1966: San Bernardino No. 348 and La Jolla No. 518 with IO
each; San Diego No. 35 and Hemet No. 615 with 9 each and Boron
U.D. with 8.
Two Masonic Districts have outstanding records for 1966: No. 644
at La Jolla with 20 and No. 638 at Lemon Grove with 16. These Districts
were cited in 1963. 1964. and 1965 for their affiliation records. This is
an illustration of what can be accomplished with a well developed program carried out with vigor.
The following Districts were cited in 1964 and 1965 for their outstanding records and again merit special mention: No. 520 at Burbank 21; No. 640 at San Diego -19; No. 516 at Van Nuys - 14 and No. 508
at Santa Barbara with 9.
The following Districts were cited last year and again merit special
mention: No. 637 at Vista - 16; No. 506 at Santa Maria - I i and
No. 554 at Los Angeles with 9.
Deserving special mention this year are Districts No. 368 Northern
Santa Clara County with 15 and No. 632 at Hemet with 14 affiliations.

Respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND S. KIMBELL, Chairman

Ref erred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SOJOURNERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
As our forefathers moved West to conquer the wilderness and carve
out a new nation, they carried the Bible with them and erected a church
for worship at every opportunity.
Included among these pioneers were Master Masons who carried
their Masonry with them and sought out and associated with their
brethren wherever found. New Lodges were formed at every opportunity.
Civilization, Religion and Masonry moved West together.
Today there is a great movement of population to California. Hundreds of Master Masons are included in this movement. All bring with
them the spirit of Mason r<y, but too often they fail to seek out their
brethren or an established Lodge. They soon become involved in their
daily activities and forget their Masonic ties. Thus, the active support of
hundreds are lost to the Fraternity. This is regrettable.
Your Sojourner Committee is aware of this tragedy and has endeavored to impress on the Office.rs of our Lodges the opportunity they
have to serve Masonry by seeking out the Sojourner, by offering the
hand of fellowship and by inviting the newly located Brother to visit
and participate in California Masonry.
Many of sur Lodges have developed excellent programs to rnund up
Sojourners, some of whom have affiliated with us. Many more have
failed to affiliate, for many reasons, but enjoy our Fraternal fellowship.

196

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The above records reflect the leadership, the interest and the hard
work of the Inspectors and Masters of the respective Districts and
Lodges . All concerned warrant hearty congratulation s.
The Sixth Division is distinguished again this year for having at
least 1 Sojourner affiliation in each of its Masonic Districts for a grand
total of 266. The Fifth Division had the second highest number of
affiliations with 240.
Worshipful Brother Ben Salmon, who has the longest service
on the Committee and has been its most consistent worker, offers the
following comment relative to the success of the Sixth Division in general and of the southern half of the Division in particular: "The Lodges
are reporting increasing success of their respective efforts. The program
is not yet self sustaining however and requires the continued push of
active, militant members on the Committee."
The success in the Fifth and Sixth Divisions has been due to the
inspired efforts of the Committeemen , Inspectors and Masters in their
respective areas. Sufficient Committee coverage has not been provided
in other areas, however, to insure personal contacts to obtain the best
results. It has been found that personal contacts are worth many letters
and active leadership on the part of working Committeemen can do
much to insure the effectiveness of the Sojourner program. Serious
consideration to this conclusion is recommended. Active and inspired
coverage in strategic areas can do much to increase affiliations and
help reduce the decline in Grand Lodge membership, which is graphically
shown on Exhibit "B," attached.
Before closing , I wish to pay tribute to a Committeeman who labored
diligently to carry inspiration throughout the First Division. Worshipful
Brother William F. Jewett, Past Master of Chico Lodge No. 111 and a
member of the Sojourner Committee for 1964 and 1965 died at his home
in Chico on November 24, 1965. The Committee has lost a true friend
and a devoted worker. His enthusiastic service during this past year has
been missed.
Respecting the wishes of the Grand Master, expenditures were held
to a minimum during the past year and travel was drastically curtailed.
The Committee had a late start and this coupled with the curtailment
of travel and a reduction of coverage, contributed to the decrease of
Sojourner affiliations - 784 this year as against 922 last year.
To enable the Committee to publish a needed guide and other material for Lodges and to perform essential travel, an appropriation of
$2.000 is recom mended for the coming year.
We, who have had the privilege of working on this Committee, desire to express our appreciation for the opportunity to have been of
service and we extend our thanks to all who have given their coopera-

197

tion and support to the Sojourner program. Without the "grassroots"
effort, the results achieved would not have been possible.
Respectfully submitted.
DAV ID H . BLAKELOCK , Cha irman

Referred to Committee on F inance.
EXHIBIT "A"
SOJOURNER AFFILIATION TO JUNE 30, 1966
Number
Each Lodge Listed
by
12 325, 721.
10 348, 518.
9 35, 42, 615.
8 Boron U.D.
6 254, 262, 332, 406, 544, 576, 623,
632, 657, 761, 811.
5 296, 336, 346, 355, 374, 380, 407,
411, 520, 556, 561, 593, 626, 693,
699, 736, 740,l\IaccabeeU .D.
4 55, 87, 120, 124, 168, 192, 241,
328, 335, 381, 403, 447, 450, 634,
652, 674, 703, 763.
3 20, 40, 45, 57, 61, 89, 113, 122,
204, 215, 264, 274, 293, 327, 341,
343, 357, 384, 437, 442, 443, 448,
511 , 547, 564, 584, 586, 594, 628,
644, 655, 667, 672, 675, 682, 687,
746, 747, 771, 775, 780, 804, 818.
2 By each of 87 Lodges.
1 By each of 174 Lodges.
0 By each of ~52 Lodges.
784 TOTAL SOJOURNER AFFILIATIONS.
1.11 Average Affiliations per
Lodge.
Note: The Sojourner Affiliations listed this tabulation r efer to affiliations of l\Iaster l\Ia sons
from other Jurisdictions only.
No.
No.
No.
Div.
Affil.
Lodges
Dist.
15
41
11
l
43
71
18
2
187
207
55
3
33
73
18
4
240
192
48
5
266
127
33
6
T otals

183

711

784

Number

Each District Listed
520.
•644.
•640.
•637, 638.
•368.
506, 516, 632.
642.
°524, 566.
602, 0 622, 0 630.
• 502, 584.
•310, 370, •508, 554, 566, 624,
626, 639.
8 316, 356, 0 601, 620, *635, *636.
7 336, 385, 388, 560, 572, 0 586,
*610, 616, *629.
6 110, 219, 220, 314, 365, 384, 518,
536, 540, 62 1, 634.
5 206, 308. 322, 333, 352, 361,
•392, 406, 412, 504, 510, 512,
558, 568, 605, 606, 609, 614, 646.
4 By each of 15 Districts.
3 By each of 26 Districts.
2 By each of 21 Districts.
1 By each of 21 Districts.
0 By each of 30 Districts.
Note: Districts marked with an •had
l or more affiliations in each
of their several Lodges.
by
21
20
19
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9

198

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXHIBIT " B"

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE MASONIC CLUB
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:

11000

10000

er
~ 8ooO
,...

7743

:c
(.)
<

""~ 7000
\t

6347

~

I.\.

6ooo

0

!

(/)

I

<

,.. 5000 ---

~

W1THD""w"L.•

,;. ..- ,...

. . --------+I ·- ---_!
-+-··---~-...--:_..4..__"---~-::_--=-:...:-=-=-=-r---i
___ _
- - - ·- - 1- - -

4000

~

-

I

0E1'THS

RA I SEO

...""«
(/)

~~

I

CO!"l'ARISON
OP"

GAINS At«> LOSSLS
2000

199

SMowlNO EP"rE~Ts o'

SOJOURNER AfFILIATIOKS

•EXHIBIT 11 8".

5563
5365
5211

Much attention has been given, the past few years. to the declining
membership of the Club. This is partially explained by the increased
on-campus activities offered by the University, and also the more intense
and consequently more confining courses offered. The University has
insisted that a high grade point average be maintained by officers of
all student organizations, sororities. fraternities, etc., and our Club
comes under that class~fication. During the past semester, several members of our student council were forced to resign from the council because they had not maintained the necessary grade point average.
The seriousness of the situation has been impressed on the present
dub membership, and, as a result, all members have dedicated themselves to publicizing the club, and giving more personal effort to securing
new members.
The University is inaugurating a new "quarter" sy stem effective with
the opening of college in September. This, in effect. means that the
college will have classes the year through.
Many of the members have spent a good portion of their summer
vacation securing from the University the names of the new enrollees
for the fall term. Brochures regarding the Club's facilities and activities
have been sent to these new students.
Our Board of Directors has an active Publicity Committee that is
striving to secure publicity through the various Masonic publications.
The events conducted during the year by the student council for the
members are many and interesting. There are get-together suppers.
dances. inter-club visits between Berkeley and ourselves, the annual
retreat which takes place between semesters-held this year at a private lodge near Big Bear, an annual Thanksgiving dinner for needy
children, an annual reception for the Grand Master, a joint Initiation
and Christmas party for parents, a Mardi Gras, a Spring Sing entry, etc.
These are but a few of the many activities planned each year by the
student council for members at relatively low cost.
Again, we appeal to you. the members of Grand Lodge, to visit the
two Clubhouses; to see what is offered the students and how we try to
provide the warm atmosphere of a "home away from home." Go back to
your Lodges and arrange visits to the Clubs. Let your members see what
Grand Lodge has been trying to do for the Masonic youth at the two
Universities. We feel that with this knowledge, the members will be
more conversant with the Clubs and can be more persuasive in having

200

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

their sons and da ughters become members. After all. it is to these young
people that we must look for the future leade rship of our Lodges.
Please cooperate with us, brethren, we need your help.
The budget for the 1966-1967 year is herewith submitted.
Respectfully submitted,

1968

1967

1966

c.

c. E . CRANE,
S ecretary-Treasurer
GEORGE E. H ALL

Rov S. How ELL.
President

DRAKE
E.
M.A. DUN CAN
P AUL R. NICH OLS
THOMAS CARROLL
WADE
EDWIN

w.

FRANK M. JENKINS
GEORGE KusMAN
ALFRED GRAY
A. CURTIS SMITH

BATES MASON,

Vice-Presiden t
FRA NK REINSCH

Referred to Committee on Finance.

BUDGET - 1966-1967
Masonic Club
University of California at Los Angeles
Salaries:

1966-1967

1965-1966

Director .................... $ 4,475.00
Associate Director .. 3,950.00
Bldg. Assistants ...... 1,656.25
$10,081.25
1,605.59

Less Deductions ......

Expenses

Budge t

$ 4,500.00

4,200.00
1,800.00

$10,500.00
1,780.00

$ 8,475.66
567.92
1,239.23

$ 8,720.00
600.00
1,300.00

4,016.53

7,500.00

6,093.90
1,140.61
356.92
75.10
144.00
168.28
150.00
5.00
25.00
266.76
196.00
86.34

6,655.00
1,500.00
400.00
100.00
144.00
175.00
150.00
5.00
25.00
300.00
200.00
500.00
2,493.00

Total ..........................................$23,007.25

$30,767.00

Gardening & gardening supplies .......... ..
Heat, light, water & powe r .................... ..
Building repairs, supplies and
replacemen ts ..................................... .
Taxes:
Property .................... 3,925.86
Withholding ............ 1,102.65
Payroll ...................... 1,065.39
Insurance ....................................................
Telephone ............................. .................... .
Newspapers a nd magazines .................. ..
Refuse service ..........................................:.
Office supplies and postage ................... .
Auditing ......................................................
Safe deposit rental ................................... .
Fire permit .............................................. ..
Printing and stationery ..........................
Public relations and orientation ........... .
Miscellaneous ............................. ...............
Depreciation ............................................... .

201

Our total of expenses does not include $3,268.07 shown in our audited
report. This figure represents the purchase of 100 shares of Investment Company of America and 120 shares of Nation-Wide Securities from the proceeds
of $3,000.00 realized from the sale of matured Southern California Edison
Co. Bonds.
We have been notified by the City of Los Angeles that our street ligh ting
standards in front of the Club and generally throughout the area, are to be
replaced with new standards. We anticipate that the assessment will be
about $3,000.00.
Our depreciation on the building only, is based on a 20 year figure th is is the 13th year of depreciation.
At 4 :25 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. W ednesday.

202

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

203

FIXED CHARGES AND EXPENSES:

MORNING SESSION-WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1966

At 9:30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful M. Richard Andrews.
Master of Magnolia 1.odge No. 242. The Grand Chaplain delivered the
invocation. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of
Tuesday, October 11, were read and approved.
.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
During the past year the Columbia Temple was used by the Rainbow
Girls, DeMolay Boys and eighteen Lodges from various parts of the
state to confer degrees.
On the ground floor the Masonic Museum is now a reality. The two
glass bubbles and the display tables have been built.
On August 30, 1966, with the aid of the Columbia State Park Superintendent Neal Powers, Assistant Grand Lecturer Wallace H. Fiske
and Field Architect, Brother Buck R. Nelson, the steel doors that cover
the two glass bubbles were opened. The public may now view a small
but impressive display of early day Masonic artifacts which have been
loaned or given to the Museum by different brothers. A replica of a
Lodge room is set up with furniture that is over one hundred years old.
The Columbia Temple Committee realizing that the Temple is
used in the summer for degrees and wishing to provide comfort for the
visiting Lodges would like to replace the old air cooler, which is very
noisy and has to be shut off ·d uring degrees, with a more modern refrigerated air conditioner. This would be more efficient and would make the
visitations more enjoyable.
The following are costs of improvements which we would like to
make on the Museum during the year 1966-1967, also the flxed charges
and expenses:
IMPROVEMENTS:

I. Building three platforms for officer's stations in museum.
Max Keller, Contractor................................................$ 327.00
2. Bracket Lights ..................•...............................................
35.00
3. Interpretative service of layout material relative to setting up display. etc. (This was included in 1965-66
budget but since the work was not completed a bill has
not yet been presented.)
Howard Van Kessel, Tuol. Co. Fair Display Agent 1,000.00
4. Refrigeration unit for Lodge Hall.................................... 333.20
Allowed for installation of unit. (No estimate has
been made. ) ................................................................ 100.00

1,795.20

Utilities ································-···-··-···-···-·······--····-··--------····-- 400.00
Miscellaneous Supplies ................................................... . · 265.00
Custodian's Salary ········---····-·-·---··----·----------------------- ·--·· ·-- 500.00
96.00
Burglar Alarm Service......................................................

1,261.00
Grand Total ····--·····················-·-------···················--·$3,056.20
Respectfully submitted,
WILLARD D. ARCHER, Chairman
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC INFORMATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
We are happy to present a brief report on the activities of the Committee on Public Information.
The Public Information Committee reaffirms its premise that contact
with the press and radio (television) is the province of the local Lodge.
On this basis, the Committee has prepared and has published two sections of a Public Relations Manual which have been distributed to all
Masters. The first section is the booklet entitled, "If Freemasonry is
Good , Let's Talk About It," which you have all seen. It was written by
Past Grand Master Theodore Meriam. It expresses desirability of creating for our Masonic Fraternity an image of " Quality. Dignity and Substance." Should there be anyone who has not read this section of the
Manual. it is recommended that he do so at the earliest opportunity. The
second section of the Manual was prepared by the Los Angeles Masonic
Press Club. Past President W illiam Latta was the author. It is entitled
"Let's Talk About Freemasonry" and has also been sent to all Lodges
with the recommendation that it be read by every Master and every
Warden, and by members appointed to the very important Lodge Committee on Press Relations. It explains how to approach your local newspapers and radio-television stations to secure news coverage of events
being arranged by your Lodge. If you do not now have a copy. if you
have lost yours, or if the Master who preceded you did not pass it on ,
you may obtain another copy from the Grand Secretary's office.
A third section of the Manual is now being prepared and will be
published early in the coming year. It will consist of a series of carefully
written and edited sample news releases covering all the more common
situations in which your Lodge might become interested: Ins tallations,
Receptions , Public and Social Events, and so on. It is hoped that these
sample news stories will be of assistance to you.
A Public Relations or Public Information Seminar is planned for
February, 1967, to be held in Fresno. This seminar will be sponsored

204

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

jointly by the Public Information Committee, the Los Angeles Masonic
Press Club and the Northern California Masonic Press Club. Ma t
Masons interested in the .field of Masonic communication are inv~te~
to attend.
The Masonic Press Clubs, one in the South and one in the North
are active and productive. Membership in these clubs is not limited t~
~embers o.f the press and radio alone. It is open to all Master Masons
mterested m the field of public information.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. ADAMS, Chairman
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most 'W_orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
. Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report covermg the 1I7th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
First, we desire to express our appreciation for the assistance and
cooperation given to us by the Grand Secretary. the Assistant Grand
Secretary and their staff. as well as that of the Building Manager and
the Grand Tiler. Without this cooperation, our chores would have been
more difficult.
. The Committee is again indebted to Brother Kirby C . Serles, Execu~1ve ~ecretary of the Long Beach Board of Relief. for assisting in reg1stermg the Inspectors during their School of Instruction.
We respectfully report that of the 707 Chartered Lodges 689 are
represented. All three of the Lodges under dispensation are represented.
The total registration is made up as follows :
28
Grand Lodge Officers.................................................
13
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::
..................
~ast Gran~ Masters .................................
~t Gran Lecturers.......................................................... .................. 2
cers and Representatives................................................................ 1-482
Past M asters, including the following .................................................. 1270
1nspectors ........................................................................ 167
Committeemen ................................................................ 159
Secretaries .................................................................. ...... 207
6
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions............ ............................... .....
Grand Lodge Officers and Past Masters of other Jurisdictions . .
(including 5 Past Grand Masters) , Special Guests..................... . 15

0

TOTAL .................................................................. ..................2816
Masters Masons (including Secretaries) ............................................ 564
GRAND TOTAL .................................................................. 3380
Respectfully submitted.
DoN E. BERRY, Chairman

205

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the ! 17th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or in his
absence the ranking Warden, or in the a bsence of the Master and
Wardens. the duly elected Representative; each Inspector, provided he
is reported present on the certificate filed with the Committee on Pay of
Members by the Grand Lecturer; Past Grand Masters; Officers of th~
Grand Lodge; Chairmen of Committees enumerated in Section 192 of
the California Masonic Code; members of the following Committees:
Jurisprudence; Policy and General Purposes; Grievances; Finance:
Credentials; Pay of Members; Charters; By-Laws; Correspondence;
Lodge Financing; and Code Commission who a_r~ actually in a_ttenda~ce
at Grand Lodge; and who comply with all prov1s1ons as noted m Section
176 of the California Masonic Code.
Mileage from the various points within the State of California t~
San Francisco has been taken from the published records of the California State Automobile Association. Mileage from points in the State
of Hawaii to San Francisco has been taken from the published records
of air lines, in accordance with Section 174, California Masonic Code.
No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco. or th_e
immediate vicinity. Compensation of members from the State of California has been computed on the basis of seven ( 7) cents per mile, the
rate fixed by the Committee on Finance. Compensation of members from
the State of Hawaii has been figured on the basis of the published first
class round trip air rate of regularly scheduled major air lines, from
Honolulu to San Francisco, plus inter-island air fare to Honolulu when
necessary.
The mileage has been checked with the registration records as ~ub­
mitted to us by the Committee on Credentials, and the amounts required
to meet the transportation costs for the 1966 Annual Communication
are as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers ... _.............................................._... $ 938.51
463.10
Past Grand Masters....................................................... .
6.552.93
·················Inspectors --·······--····-··· .. --·-··············--····--·······
Committees ..................................................................... . 2,101.82
Representatives of Lodges ............................................. . 26.882.58

---$36.939.21

Checks will be ready for distribution at the Registration Desk on
Friday morning immediately following the election of the Junior Grand
Warden. Brethren, if you are the Master. or Warden representing your

207

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lodge, or the Elected Representative of your Lodge, the Pay of Members Committee would like to urge you to pick up your <:heck.
Arrangements have been made so that those who desire to cash their
checks may do so at the United California Bank, Fairmont Hotel. Your
Grand Lodge Credentials will serve as suitable identification.
Respectfully submitted,
MATTHEW M. CoooN. Chairman
Referred to Committee on Finance.

to conform to the original requirements for membership and no more
members will be accepted on recommendation.
Plans are now under way to coordinate the Club to the four quarter
system which will begin with the fall term.
. To keep this report as brief as possible the proposed budget is
attached.
Your continued support will be greatly appreciated by the student
members. and the Board of Directors.
Respectfully submitted.
1968
1967
1966
c. MELVI N DAVIS
WILLIS H. GILLETTE, ELTON L. TURNER,
J. WALTER PROCTOR
Vice President
President
DONALD P . HEWLl!.TI, ALFRED E. HOPKINS
PAUL s. BOREN ,
EDWARD H. REDFORD
Treasurer
Secretary
WILLIAM T. FRIBORG. GENE c. OTWELL
R. C. HORSTMANN
Assistant Secretary
W. H. NurnNG, JR.
E. A . REINKE
Referred to Committee on Finance.

206

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE MASONIC CLUB AT THE UNIVERSITY
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Your Board of Directors at the University of California Clubhouse
would like to preface our report with a plea for all of you to visit your
clubhouses, and see for yourselves that the picture painted by the few
who seek publicity, with banners and pickets and demonstrations and
wild parties. is not the true painting. The balance of the fine young
people seeking education to be our future teachers, scientists. doctors,
lawyers and political leaders comprise 98 % of the students. Do not be
afraid to send your sons and daughters to our state universities and
please do send them to your own clubhouses.
The Board has worked closely with the student council in making
every effort to stimulate membership and to give them one of the finest
clubs at U.C. We added several new reference books to our library and
a new complete Encyclopedia Brittanica; we also have a new calculator.
For the entertainment and comfort of the members we added a new
portable television, some new furniture and had our old furniture recovered.
We were again fortunate in having a fine group of officers on our
student council. The president. Jim Fonda, spoke at the Spring Breakfast of the East Bay Masters and Wardens and also at the Sacramento
Board of Relief Spring Breakfast. Those of you who were privileged to
hear this young man speak and to see and talk to him have a good picture of the type of young people your Masonic Clubs attract.
The general administration of the clubhouse by M:rs. Janice Kohl was
excellent, and the social activities under the direction of Mrs. Mary
Kierulff were interesting and well attended. We were especially pleased
to entertain our busy Grand Master and Mrs. Smith with a reception
and an initiation ceremony during the spring term.
Your Berkeley Clubhouse is situated in one of the urban renewal
areas. We are pleased to announce that our building improvements exceeded the recommended expenditures and the building passed the inspection by the bureau.
At the request of the Grand Master, our by-laws are being changed

MASONIC CLUB AT THE UNIVERSITY
BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA
BUDGET POR THE F1sCAL YEAR ENDING JuLY 1967
SALARIES:
Resident Hostess ..................................................................$ 3.600.00
Social Hostess ................................. ....................................... 4.000.00
600.00
Accountant ....:.......................................................................
Janitor and Gardener............................................................. . 1,750.00
UTILITIES:
Gas, Electricity and Water ................................................... .
Garbage ................................ ................................. .. ...............
Telephone :................................. ............................................

1,275.00
100.00
275.00

.::>UP PLIES:

Janitorial ···················-······································-·····················
Garden ................................................................. ...................
Office ...............................,. ................................. ....................

300.00
100.00
300.00

TAXES :
Payroll ................................ ................................................... .
Property ............ ~ ................................. ................................. ...

350.00
5,000.00

INSURANCE:
Fire .................................................................. ........................
Compensation ........................................................................
Liability ................................ ..................................................

294.00
94.00
250.00

208

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

ANNUAL CLEANING ......••••.•.•.•......••• •.•.•..••..••..••••••••• •••..•.....•.•...•..•
AUDIT •••..•..•.........•.••.. ....•.....•.•••.•.•...•. ...••.•.•........•..•.... ......••.•...•.•.•.
MISCELLANEOU S ············ ···•·•······ · ···· ··· ··•···•··•·•· •··· ·····•··•················
PROMOTION AND AovE.RTISING.•..••..•.....•.........• ...•..•......... ....•......

300.00
300.00
150.00
2,000.00

TOTAL . . .....•.•.•.•..•.......•. .•..••.....•...........•••.•.•..•........•.•.....• .. $21,038.00

Building repairs and furniture expenditures for 1967 will come from
reserve funds. We anticipate a new roof probably in 1968 and some
repairs to the rear portion of the building. 1966 repairs to building completely satisfied the Urban Renewal Board of Berkeley, the Club House
being in one of the areas under its jurisdiction.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON DEFINITION
OF COMMITTE E RESPONSIB ILITIES AND
CODE REVIEW
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Grand Lodge having previously approved the creation of such
a committee, the Grand Master, on March 11, 1966. appointed five
members to this committee and designated four ex officio members.
One reason for the authorization of such a committee is the absence
in the California Masonic Code of any specification as to the responsibilities or sphere of most committees of this body. As an example, section
192 of the code requires the Grand Master to appoint 118 members to
14 committees named therein. but the following sections specify the
responsibilties of only five of the 14 committees. Elsewhere in the code
there are scattered sections as to other committees. It appears reasonable that these provisions should be brought together and not left
scattered.
Another reason for the authorization of this committee was the
opinion, expressed by several recent Grand Masters, that the code as a
whole needed updating.
The first task undertaken was a draft of proposed sections as to 19
committees. as to titles, number of members and the scope of responsibility of each. This has been completed. It would have been physically
possible to have had these circulated with the more than 40 resolutions
circulated in August, but the committee decided to defer presentation
of any proposed amendments to the code until the next annual communication. at which time, it is anticipated, a substantial number will be
presented by the committee.
It should be stated that one of the major purposes of the committee
is to couch the sections of the code in language which should be easily
understood by any reader regardless of professional training. Another
aim is not to use a single word more than is absolutely necessary. We

209

believe we have achieved these aims thus far. At the time of presentation
cogent reasons will be given for any changes of phraseology which may
be proposed.
I move that this report be received and filed.
Respectfully submitted.
ELLSWORTH MEYER, Chairman

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON OLD MASONIC HALL
IN LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
It is most gratifying to report to you again as Chairman of the
Committee on Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles. The Hall is still open
only on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays from 12 noon until 5.00 p.m.
Brother Joseph Wray Gibson is still the custodian and I would like to,
state here that he is a fine representative of our Temple. Brother Gibson ,
with his fine old ways, is an integral part of our Temple and he is part of
the scenery, giving the visitors a good impression of old time Masonry.
Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge No. 814 is the only Lodge that meets
in our Old Hall. Any Lodge can use the Hall for any special event that
they may choose. but few have taken advantage of this excellent opportunit·y to present to their members this genuine image of Masonry in its
beginnings in Los Angeles.
During the past year approximately 2650 members of our Grand
Jurisdiction visited the Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles, 100 of Foreign
Jurisdictions, 600 from other Grand Lodges in the United States. plus
2500 visitors from California, the United States and many foreign countries. The grand tota l of visitors for the past year totaled 5850.
Recently new monies have been allotted by the State of California
for continued restoration of the Plaza de Los Angeles, of which our
Hall is a part. Some of this money has gone for the completion of our
back stairway and the balcony that surrounds the Hall. When the entire
project is completed all the exhibits will be open s ix days a week. The
Committee feels that the budget for the Hall should be increased to
$1500.00 for two reason~: First. that our Custodian's hourly wage be
increased and, secondly, we must be prepared to be open six days a
week in conformity with the other buildings in the area.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Respectfully submitted,
BENJAMIN M. WFJss. Chairman

210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
At 11 :00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Thursday.

MORTGAGE BURNING CEREMONY
Masons, their friends and interested persons were a dmitted to the
auditorium to witness the ceremony of burning the mortgage on the
California Masonic Memorial Temple. Special guests included the architect, the builders and the representatives of the banks holding an interest
in the mortgage.
The symbolic ceremony represented the culmination of the efforts of
all the members of the jurisdiction. A sense of pride and satisfaction in
reaching this fraternal milestone was felt by all present.
The ceremony in its entirety is printed below.

ORGAN PRELUDE
Music by Octet
RITUAL
GRAND MASTER (calls to order)
From the beginning of time men ha ve been builders. The earliest
man firs t lived in natural caves but eventually he built his own dwelling
of stones, of bones, of hide, of twigs and branches. Through the centuries man became more adept and experienced. His buildings grew in
height and stability and eventually in beauty. As man became more
civilized and began to reason, he realized that there were forces and
phenomena beyond his comprehension and understanding.
It became his nature to fear that which he could not understand and
finally fear turned into a form of worship by which the forces he experienced, but did not understand, would be appeased and pleased. Sacrifices
of food and other important worldly possessions were offered-first on
altars in the open and then enclosed in temples.
And so it is that over thousands of years man has constructed temples and cathedrals, palaces and public buildings and these have taken
major space in the history of art. Even from the dawn of history the
art of building has so consistently touched and mingled with human life
in the home-in the shop---in the temple-that it has often become the
best history and commentary of the times.
Today the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California has met for the purpose of celebrating
the completion of a resolve which originated eighteen years ago.
In 1948 men of experience began to have visions of a Masonic Temple of great beauty--erected to God and dedicated to M asons who gave
their lives that we might live a last measure of devotion to the holy cause
of liberty.
That dream began to take form and substance in a site-in sketches
and then in working drawings- in steel and concrete-in stone and glass
-in fine wood-and in skilled workmanship.
Contributions which Masons of California and Hawaii had made

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

211

toward a memorial honoring their fallen dead were converted into brick
and mortar. Voluntary donations began to flow in from all over California and Hawaii and members of the Grand Lodge agreed to a stipulated assessment. Finally six San Francisco banks, as a great example
of faith in the promise and integrity of this Grand Lodge completed the
financing of California Masonic Memorial Temple with loans totalling
more than $2.300,000.
Now eight years and fourteen days after the dedication of a dream
accomplished we meet to commemorate the fulfillment of a pledge-a
promise made earlier that the faith and confidence represented by the
extension of credit would be justified.
In accordance with the teachings of our institution. it is our duty
before entering upon any great or important undertaking , to invoke the
aid and blessing of God. We sha ll therefore reverently unite with our
Grand Chaplain in an address to the Throne of Grace.
GRAND CHAPLAIN: (Prayer)
GRANO MASTER:
Brother Grand Secretary, you will read a summary of the events
which have brought California Masonic Memorial Temple through the
stages of planning, building , completion, financing, and to the fulfillment
of the pledge to retire all debt.
GRANO SECRETARY:
Most Worshipful, in the 98th session of Grand Lodge convened in
1947 Grand Master John Moore gave the real impetus to the b uilding
of the temple when he said,
" In addition to serving as a memorial to our brothers who served
and died in World War II a new Temple would furnish a comfortable meeting place for the delegates to our communication in
the years to come and would provide a fitting place in which to
pause and acknowledge our debt to the early builders of Masonry
in C alifornia whose consummate wisdom, fidelity. and courage
have placed in our hands this magnificent heritage."
During the entire year of 1948 a special committee investigated locations, building costs, and financing. The study extended through the
years of 1949, 1950, and 1951 when Grand Lodge approved a per capita
tax of 50¢.
In 1952 the per capita was raised to $1.00 and an architect was
employed.
1953 was the year of action. Grand Master Arthur Warren called a
special conference of Past Grand Masters, elected Grand Lodge Officers
and standing committee chairmen to review the Temple Committee's
recommendations to be made to Grand Lodge. G rand Lodge approved
a contribution of $9.00 from each applicant for degrees.
In 1954 it became apparent that the Masons of California were clear

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in their deter mina tion to build a memo rial templ
e, and on Wed nesd ay,
Octo ber 26, 1955, groun d was broke n on Nob
Hill as the first step in
its const ructio n.
On Septe mber 19, 1956, in solem n cerem ony Gran
d Lodg e obser ved
the layin g of the corne rston e, and the Open Book
was estab lished wher ein the name s of breth ren of Lodg es who contr
ibute d $I 0.00 per capit a
woul d be recor ded.
On April 24, 1958, notic e of comp letion was filed
and final paym ent
made to the gener al contr actor on July 15, 1958.
On Mond ay, Septe mber 29, 1958 our Calif ornia
Maso nic Mem orial
Temp le was dedic ated. Parti cipat ing in the dedic
ation cerem ony, and
prese nted with Publi c Hono rs to the Gran d Lodg
e of Calif ornia were
23 world leade rs repre sentin g 14 foreign count ries,
and 33 men of distincti on from 28 of our State s of the Unio n.
With the comp letion of the Temp le volun tary contr
ibutio ns from our
memb ers had provi ded almo st $1 .900,000. Per
capit a and contr ibutio ns
accou nted for sligh tly less than $1,800,000 and
Gran d Lodg e funds for
the purpo se totall ed $627,000.
Whe n the build ing was comp lete, finan cing in the
sum of $2.303,790
had been unde rwrit ten by six San Franc isco bank
s: Bank of Amer ica.
Amer ican Trus t Comp any, The Bank of Calif
ornia , Croc ker Citiz ens
Natio nal Bank , Angl o-Ca liforn ia Natio nal Bank
of San Franc isco, and
Well s Farg o Bank . (Spec ial guest s intro duced
here. )
Two hund red twen ty-on e thous and, four hund
red ninet y ( 221,490)
indiv idual contr ibutio ns were made by the Maso
ns of Calif ornia and
Hawa ii, their families and friend s. Of the 710
Lodg es in Calif ornia and
Haw aii, 663 attain ed Meri t Roll status , or an
avera ge of $10 per member. Eleve n years had trans pired from dream to
realit y.
Augu st 1, 1966, a final paym ent of $224,747.20
remo ved all debt from
the Temp le and a pledg e made in 1958 was comp
letely and hono rably
fulfilled .
GRAND MASTER :
Broth er Gran d Trea surer , you will provi de the
Gran d Mars hal with
evide nce indic ating that the debt impre ssed durin
g the build ing and erection of Calif ornia Maso nic Mem orial Temp le has
been fully disch arged .
GRAND TREASURER:
Most Wors hipfu l. I have facsimile copie s of notes
of indeb tedne ss
all recor ded as paid in full.
GRAND MASTER:
Broth er Gran d Treas urer, you will deliv er to the
Gran d Mars hal for
depos it in the cruci ble evide nce which repre sents
that all debt has been
retire d.
(Gra nd Mars hal deliv ers docum ent to cruci ble
and return s to station.)

l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

GRAND MASTER:
. ·
f
Broth er Depu ty Gran d Mast er , what a re the
the
prere quisites or
build ing of a Temp le?
DEPUTY GRAND MASTER:
d
b 1 'd
M ost Worshipf ul. befor e the corne rston e of a
buil ing can ~ a1 •
the architect mus t provi de the plans which the maste
r c~aftsman w ill use
.
as h 1s ru1e an d gui'de · Befor e the archi tect can conce ive the chara cter
A
and scope of the struc ture, one man or a group
·
of men m.ust rstde~perience the desire, dream the dream , and then with
enthu siasm an
etermin ation devis e the work to be done.
.
.
.
Thes e were the prere quisi tes to the build ing of
Calif ornia Ma~o mc
Mem orial Temp le and I now symb olical ly add
the fuel of enthu siasm .
deter minat ion and desir e to the crucible.
.
(A) DEPUTY, GRANO MASTER appro aches cruci
ble and sta~ds on its
Nort h side. He pours the conte nts of a vial on
the docum ent m the crucible.
GRABND Mh ASSTER.: Gran d Ward en what are the
ingre dient s which berot er en1or
·
.
· h
come the adhes ive morta r in the formi
ng of a firm found ation . m
t e erection of stron g and sturd y walls , and the cover
ing of the super struc ture
with a sound roof?
SENIOR GRAND WARDEN:
b
To stand firm and tall a build ing must ris e
from a prove n ~se.
Ceme nt sand and rock comb ine to becom e concr
ete. Stone and bn~k ·
steel a~d alumi num. glass and wood , are mold
ed toget her to provide
struc ture. utility, ahd beau ty.
.
.
f
The ingre dient s which provi de the instru ment ality
for th~ erect.to~ o
a build ing are devel opme nt, progr ess and produ
ction , of which this ue1
is emble matic al.
W
d
( B) SENIOR GRA ND WARDEN appro aches cruci
ble on
est an pours
conte nts.
GRAND MASTER:
· Gran d Ward en what are the eleme nts w h'1c h . 'f
B roth er J umor
s1gm Y
.
. lT
11
the comp letion of C alifor nia Maso•nic
Mem ona
emp e.
JuNIO R GRAND WARDEN:
.
f d ' .. After
"'Gre at is the art of begin ning but great er 1s
the art o. e°: mg.
an idea has been conce ived with enthu siasm and
determ mat1o n. after the
plans have been draw n on the trestl e boa rd. after
stone has been set on
stone and the apex o f the T empl e has reach ed
towa rd the ~~rm sunshine . and the cooli ng rains. only then come s
the day of fr uition. The
dream has becom e realit y. The plan has been ~ccom
plished. The T emple
is dedic a ted to Freem asonr y. Virt ue. and Umv
ersal Bene volen ce. .
To the fire of fulfillment I add symbolical ly the
fuel of accom plish ment and dedic ation.

214'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAl.IFORNIA

( C) JUNIOR GRAND WARDEN approaches the crucible and stands to the
South. He pours the contents in the crucible.
GRAND MASTER: (Comes down from the East and joins with the Grand
Marshal in approaching the crucible from the East. The Grand Marshal
stands to the left and rear of the Grand Master holding the ignited lamp
and tray.)
All of the performances of human art at which we look with praise
and wonder are the result of the resistless force of perseverance. By this
virtue the quarry becomes a pyramid. The first turn of a spade is overwhelmed by the final result. yet each petty and seemingly insignificant
operation incessantly continued in due course of time surmounts the
greatest difficulties.
Thus through the continuing and determined efforts of the Masons
of California and Hawaii the quarry has supplied the demands created
by the first turn of the spade.
Dreams and ideas h;:ive manifested themselves in development and
labor. Earth has produced stone and iron to which the architect and
builder applied the sciences of geometry. chemistry and physics. Thus
this Memorial Temple arose. dedicated to God and honoring those who
served their country with faith and courage and with a willingness to
make the supreme and final sacrifice that the ideas and principles of freedom might be forever preserved. The faith which the business community had in the integrity and honor of the fraternity has now been justified . The debt has been paid in full. The pledge of more than 220,000 men
and Masons has been redeemed.
"We have fought the good fight, we have finished the course, we
have kept the faith."
(GRAND MARSHAL passes lamp to GRAND MASTER who lights the fire.)
Music: "Bless This House"
(Officers return to stations at end of music.)
GRAND MASTER:
The Grand Chaplain will now give the benediction which will conclude the ceremony.
GRAND CHAPLAIN:
May the blessing of Almighty God, Who made the heaven and the
earth, and all who dwell therein, be with us all and remain with us, now
and forevermore. Amen.

MORTGAGE BURNING CEREMONY
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
October 12, 1966

215

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

217

IN GRAN D LODG E
13, 1966
preAt 9 :30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master
.
Burnes
Earl
d
Edwar
ipful
Worsh
by
raised
siding. This session was
in
Chapla
Grand
The
380.
No.
Lodge
Beach
gton
Master of Huntin
sdeliver ed the invocation. The minute s of the mornin g session of Wedne
day. Octobe r 12, were read and approv ed.
MORNI NG SESSIO N-THU RSDAY , OCTOB ER

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON INSU RANC E
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A . M. of California:

ce
On July 7, 1966, your Insuran ce Comm ittee review ed the insuran
.
Houses
Club
and
,
policies of Grand Lodge, the Mason ic Homes
ce
We found the records mainta ined by Grand Lodge and the insuran
ge
covera
in
broad
are
lves
themse
policies in excellent shape. The policies
and cost has been kept very lCYW.
your
The Comm ittee feels, howev er, that the maximum benefits of
only
lished
accomp
be
will
This
d.
achieve
been
yet
progra m have not
d
covere
are
i
Hawai
in
and
nia
Califor
in
Lodges
utent
constit
when all
under the master policies with :
1. A single certificate issued to each Lodge setting forth their complete covera ge.
ual
2. The curren t annu al billings now being made to the individ
m
premiu
the
of
cost
the
of
on
Lodges wquld be replace d by inclusi
capita.
per
annual
as a part of the
s
Since the numbe r of Lodges not now covere d by the master policie
the
,
7)
1
are
there
tyLiabili
Public
e,
exampl
are so small in numbe r (for
these
Comm ittee strong ly recommends, provid ing it can be done, that
:
ng
followi
the
for
insure
Lodges
Public Liability Insuran ce
Medica l Payme nt covera ge
Monies and Securit ies- Broad form
Paraph ernalia all risk covera ge
by
and be automa tically taken into the master policies and thus benefit
m
minimu
a
at
and
ion
the broad protect ion afforde d by blanke t protect
of cost.
ual
We feel confident that any agent or compa ny writing the individ
reachfar
the
nd
ta
unders
will
in
ted
policies of the Lodges to be blanke
and in
ing benefits that will occur to all Mason ic Lodges in C alifornia
Hawaii under such a progra m .
Adopte d.
Respec tfully submit ted.
T. }AMES CARLILE, Chairman

218

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTIONS

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has authorized us
to say that it concurs in this recommendation.
The Committee on furisprudence:
This resolution by Edward H . Siems provides for the elimination of
the $1.00 per capita for the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
We therefore offer the following resolution to effectuate the purpose
of the resolution :
RESOLVED. that section 283 of the California Masonic Code be
and it is hereby amended hy striking therefrom the following language :
"5th. For each Master M ason borne upon its rolls as of June 30,
the sum of $1.00 for the use and benefit of the California Masonic
Memorial Temple."
BE IT FURTHER RESOL YEO, that the language of said section
reading "The per capita sums levied under 2, 3. 4 and 5 herein shall
not apply to any of the following:"
be amended to read as follows :
"The per capita sums levied under 2, 3 and 4 herein shall not
apply to any of the following:"
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees noted. Committee reports and action taken are printed below each.

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
PER CAPITA (C.M.C. SEC. 283)
T o the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, as a result of a recommendation made by the Special
Committee on Memorial Temple in 1953, the Ordinances of Grand
Lodge were amended by its action to make effective the allocation of
$1 .00 of the annual per capita tax toward the California Masonic
Memorial Temple, and
WHEREAS it was felt that adopting this action as an ordinance
would be helpful in arranging long term financing for construction of the
Temple, and
WHEREAS the erection of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple has been completed and the debt retired, and
WHEREAS all California Masons can feel justifiably proud of their
achievement at having arrived at this point, and
WHEREAS it has been the specific and implied intent that assessment of the $1.00 would be eliminated when it was no longer necessary
toward the retirement of the debt,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge ( C.M.C. Section 283) be amended by eliminating
therefrom the first paragraph of Section 283-Sth and any other applicable references to this portion of the per capita assessment.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H . SIEMS, P.M., No. 560
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.
The Committe-e on Finance:
There has been referred to this Committee the resolution presented
by the Grand Secretary. Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., relating to the per
capita tax levied under Section 283-Sth, C.M.C., which provides for
the assessment of $1.00 for each Master Mason borne upon the rolls of
Grand Lodge on June 30th of each year, said assess ment relating to
raising of funds to be used in the retirement of debt incurred in the
building of this Memorial Temple.
The Memorial Temple now being free of mortgage debt, the necessity for the levying of an annual per capita tax of $1.00 for the purpose
described in the resolution has ended and the Committee on Finance
moves adoption of the resolution and urges a yes vote.

219

AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS
( C.M.C. SEC. 194)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. in compliance with present provisions of Section 194
of the Ordinant:es of Grand Lodge a certified public accountant has
each month examined various disbursements, claims and demands made
against the Grand Lodge. and
WHEREAS, in early 1965 certain changes were made in the accounting system and procedures used for Grand Lodge, the Masonic
Homes of California and the California Masonic Memorial Temple,
and disbursements for the two Masonic Homes are also now processed
in the San Francisco Office rather than at the homes, and
WHEREAS, accounting machines installed have developed more
positive controls for such disbursements than previously. and
WHEREAS, the certified public accountant suggests the sufficienc;y
of an examination of the disbursements on a test basis as part of the
annual audit program and that a monthly examination of every disbursement is not necessary. be it
RESOLVED tha t Section 194 of the California Masonic Code be
amended to read as follows :
194. Audit of accounts. The Grand Master in consultation with
the Grand Treasurer shall designate certified public accountants whose
duty it shall be to examine the financial statements of Grand Lodge, the
Masonic Homes of California, and the California Masonic Memorial

!20

221

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE (l)p CALIPORNIA

Temple in. accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
and accordmgly such examination shall include such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as are considered
necessary by them in the circumstances. The auditor shall call to the
attention of the Grand Master or Grand Treasurer such items as are
n?t recorded in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Respectfully submitted,
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, P.M .. No. 370
Guy B. M1zE, P.M., No. 368
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

a tenant in such a building engaged primarily in the sale of other merchandise may sell bottled liquors incidental to the sale of such other merchandise; provided, however. that there shall be no advertising of liquor
on the exterior of such building which dominates the advertising of other
business conducted therein, or is in such location or form as to make
such building undesirable for use by a Masonic Lodge or Masonic related organization; and provided further that this section shall not
require a Masonic Lodge or Masonic related organization to vacate
leased premises prior to expiration of leases made in good faith. or to
violate leases, or to refuse to accept buildings so received from an estate
or by gift; but such buildings so received must be sold or otherwise
disposed of, or the offending use must be terminated, within a reasonable
time."

The Committee on Finance.:
Pursuant to Recommendation No. 5 of Grand Master Meriam at
the 1965 Communication of Grand Lodge, the present Grand Master.
the Grand Secretary. and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
have reviewed audit procedures and requirements of this Grand Lodge
with its auditors and the Grand Secretary's office and they have recommended the new procedures outlined in the resolution presented by
Brothers Paul A. Pflueger. Grand Treasurer, and Guy B. Mize, Chairma n of the Committee on Finance.
The Committee on Finance moves adoption of the resolution to
amend Section .194. Audit ?f accounts. and recommends a yes vote.
The Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes have authorized us to say that they concur in this recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

PROPOSED LEGISLATION RESPONSIVE TO DIRECTION
OF 1965 ANNUAL COMMUNICATION RE SPECIAL
COMMITTEE REPORT ON LAWS RESPECTING LIQUOR
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Grand Master at the 1965 Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge requested your Committee on Jurisprudence to prepare legislation
for the purpose of effectuating the recommendations of his Special Committee appointed to consider possible modifications of present Masonic
law res pecting liquor. Your Committee has carried out this assignment
and hereby suggests the following legislation:
As to Recommendation (1), the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED: That a new section. to be numbered section
324:~ . be added to the California Masonic Code, to read as follows:
Sec. 324.1. A Masonic Lodge. or organization the prerequisite of
membership wherein is tha t a person be a M aster Mason. shall not hold
~ state~ ~r special ~~eting in. or own or rent a building. or be a tenant
ma bu1ldmg, contammg a bar, liquor store or establishment, except that

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That sub-sections 199b. l 99c.
199f, 199i, l 99k, and sub-sections 324f, 324g and 408b of the California
Masonic Code be repealed and deleted from the Code.
As to Recommendation (3), which is directly related to Recommendation ( l), the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED : That a new section be added to the California
Masonic Code, to be numbered section 324.2, to read as follows:
"Sec. 324.2. A Masonic Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite
of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, may hold
social gatherings, dinners, dinner dances, or other social events at which
intoxicating liquors may be used, served and consumed. or may hold an
open installation.of officers in a hotel, restaurant or other establishment
serving liquor or operating a bar; provided, however, in case of an open
installation of a Masonic Lodge. the Grand Master must flrst approve
the location .as suitable to the solemnity of the installation ceremony;
and provided further that no liquor shall be served to or consumed by
members or guests during such installation ceremony; and provided
further that, except for ritua listic purposes or a s hereinabove and as in
sec. 324.1 otherwise spedfled, no intoxicating liquor shall be used, served
or consumed at any M asonic meeting or gathering nor shall any intoxicating liquor be sold, dispensed, given away. or consumed in a Masonic
Temple or building being used for Masonic purposes. and. furthermore,
no Master Mason shall knowingly attend or be present at any regula r
or special meeting of a Masonic group, organization, lodge or body
which is held or assembled in any building. temple or place owned,
operated or controlled by a Masonic Lodge, organization or body requiring as a prerequisite to membership therein that a person be a
Master Mason, when intoxicating liquor is sold. served, given away,
or permitted to be sold. given away or dispensed in such building or
temple, or in which an intoxicating liquor bar is then being operated."

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

As to Recommendation (6). the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED: That a new section, to be numbered section
515.1, be added to the California Masonic Code, to read as follows:
"Sec. 515.1. Compliance with law of foreign jurisdictions. A member
of a Lodge of this jurisdiction, when within another jurisdiction, shall
obey and be subject to the Masonic law of such other jurisdiction and
also to the Masonic law of this jurisdiction which is consistent with the
practice. policy or law of such other jurisdiction. A member of a Lodge
of this jurisdiction may not do anything within this territorial jurisdiction in violation of the Masonic law of this jurisdiction whether he
resides or is in or out of this territorial jurisdiction."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That sub-sections 334h and 515c
of the California Masonic Code be repealed and deleted from the Code.
As to R ecommendation ( 4). the following resolution :
BE IT RESOLVED: That a new section, to be numbered section
515.2, be added to the California Masonic Code, to read as follows:
"Sec. 515.2. All members of organizations within the territorial jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, the prerequisite of membership wherein is
that a person be a Master Mason, shall be subject to the same standards
of conduct and propriety as are or may be imposed upon Master Masons
in this jurisdiction."
As to Recommendation (5) , the following resolution:
"BE IT RESOLVED: That section 51 3 of the California Masonic
Code be and it is hereby repealed, and that the decisions and annotations
contained in sub-sections 513a and 513k, inclusive, and sub-sections
541 g, 683av and 683ax be repealed and deleted from the Code."
The following resolution should be added:
"BE IT RESOLVED: That section 408 of the California Masonic
Code be amended by deleting therefrom the following: 'nor shall any
such liquors be used or served at any Masonic banquet or gathering.' "
W e move the acceptance of these resolutions.
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR, P.M .• No. 41
Loms C . DRAPEAU, P.M.. No. 633
HENRY C. CLAUSEN, P .M .. No. 630
JoE L. SHELL, P.M.. No. 35
ELMER W. HEALD, P.M.. No. 384
ELBERT W. DAVIS, P.M.. No. 571
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, M .. No. HS
ALLEN GRESHAM, S. W .. No. 348
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
NOTE: Leo E. Anderson, P.M.• No . 355, as a member of the Committee on Jurisprudence, did not sign the above legislation but submitted.
as a minority report, Resolutions Nos. 37, 38, 39 and 40. Resolutions

Nos . 37, 38 and 40 were subsequently withdrawn. Resolution No. 39
was not adopted.
Th~. Committee on Jurisprudence made the following explanatory statement:
G. M. Theodore Meriam appointed a Special Committee to study
the use of liquor as it relates to Masonry. The report was rendered at
the 1965 Communication and the recommendations of the Committee
were adopted by the Grand M aster in his Annual Message as his own
recommendation. The Grand Master ref erred the report to the Jurisprudence Committee to draw the implementing legislation for this 1966
Communication. This we have done with the assurance of P.G.M. Phil
Meyers, Chairman of the Special Committee, that the proposed resolutions which the Jurisprudence Committee has prepared does carry out
the recommendations of his Committee.
Briefly stated, the Special Committee clarified and liberalized the
provisions of the Masonic Code relating to the use and sale of liquor in
the following material respects :
(I } The membership of Masonic lodges and that of concordant
bodies (i.e .. organizations requiring that their members be Masons) a re
to be allowed to serve and consume intoxicating liquors at social affairs
or meetings in hotels, restaurants or other establishments serving liquor.
Also, open installations may be held in such places but no liquor is to be
consumed or served during the installation ceremony itself. Furthermore,
the Grand Master must approve as suitable the location of any Blue
Lodge installation.
( 2} Masonic Temples or temples of concordant bodies may be
located and meet in buildings where bottled liquors are sold as incidental
to other businesses as in a grocery store, unless the advertisement of the
liquor is offensive or dominates the exterior advertisement of the building. Also, if a lodge inherits property having a prohibited use or, in good
faith, is burdened with an offending lease. the lodge is given the reasonable time required to rectify the situation.
( 3) A bartender or one in the bar business may apply for the degrees
of Masonry and will be judged by the same standards as any other
applicant, i.e .. on his merits and not by his means of making a living so
long as his business is lawful.
( 4} The membership of all Masonic related organizations in this
jurisdiction, i.e., those requiring that members be M asons, shall be governed by the same rules of conduct and propriety as is required of Blue
Lodge members in this jurisdiction. There are to be no classes of Masons
in this regard.
( 5} California Masons while in other jurisdictions will abide by the
practices, policies or laws of those jurisdictions and a lso the practices,
policies or laws of the California Grand Lodge which are not inconsistent
therewith. Masons of this jurisdiction, whether they live in the jurisdic-

224

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

tion or outside, must do nothing within this jurisdiction contrary to the
Masonic law thereof.
There are refinements to these general statements. as you will note
when I read the proposed resolutions. However, I have indicated the
signiflcent changes. As I stated before, I have been assured by P.G.M.
Phil Meyers, Chairman of the Special Committee, that we have effectuated the Special Committee's recommendations. I again repeat that the
Jurisprudence Committee is making no recommendation but is merely
carrying out its mandate to prepare the legislation and we will move the
adoption of the various resolutions for the purpose of placing them before Grand Lodge.
Other resolutions are being offered. As their proponents will no doubt
point out, these resolutions go farther than the G.M.'s and Special Committee's recommendations in liberalizing the present rules on the use of
liquor. They would permit concordant Masonic bodies to serve liquor in
their temples or regular meeting places. Some would allow the renting of
Blue Lodge social halls to organizations which may serve liquor at their
affairs held in the Masonic Temples. and some would go so far as to
permit liquor to be served at the Blue Lodge's own social affairs held in
the social halls of Masonic Temples. I merely mention these alternatives
to apprize you in a general way of the nature of legislation proposed by
others than the Special Committee.
It is apparent that these subsequent resolutions proposed by others,
in all respects in which they do not agree with the Special Committees
resoluions, are clearly inconsistent therewith, and the passage of any
one of the Special Committee's resolutions will obviate the necessity of
voting on any of the other resolutions covering the identical issue.
NOTE: The proponents thereafter withdrew Resolutions Nos. 37,
38, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44.

The Committee on furisprudence then reported as follows: (Action
taken is indicated at the end of each Recommendation.)
The Grand Master at the 1965 Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge requested your Committee on Jurisprudence to prepare legislation
for the purpose of effectuating the recommendations of his Special Committee appointed to consider possible modifications of present Masonic
law respecting liquor. Your Committee has carried out this assignment
and hereby suggests the following legislation:
As to Recommendation (I), the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED : That a new section. to be numbered section
321. I. be added to the California Masonic Code. to read as follows :
"Sec. 324.1. A Masonic Lodge. or organization the pre-requisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason. shall not hold
a stated or special meeting in, or own or rent a building. or be a tenant

GRANO LODGE OP Ci\LIPORNli\

225

in a building. containing a bar, liquor store or establishment. except that
a tenant in such a building engaged primarily in the sale of other merchandise may sell bottled liquors incidental to the sale of such other
merchandise; provided, however, that there shall be no advertising of
liquor on the exterior of such building which dominates the advertising
of other business conducted therein, or is in such location or form as to
make such building undesirable for use by a Masonic Lodge or Masonic
related organization; and provided further that this section shall not require a Masonic Lodge or Masonic related organization to vacate leased
premises prior to expiration of leases made in good faith, or to violate
leases. or to refuse to accept buildings so received from an estate or by
gift; but such buildings so received must be sold or otherwise disposed
of. or the offending use must be terminated, within a reasonable time.
Provided further that this section shall not prevent a Masonic related
organization from holding a meeting in a hotel. restaurant or club where
intoxicating liquor is sold."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED : That sub-sections 199b. 199c,
I 99f. ! 99i, l 99k. and sub-sections 324f. 324g and 108b of the California
Masonic Code be rescinded.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
As to Recommendation (3), which is directly related to Recommen~
dation ( 1) . the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED: That a new section be added to the California
Masonic Code, to be numbered section 324.2, to read as follows:
"Sec. 324.2. A Masonic Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite
of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, may hold
social gatherings, dinners, dinner dances , or other social events at which
intoxicating liquors may be used, served and consumed. or may hold
an open installation of officers in a hotel. restaurant or other establishment serving liquor or operating a bar; provided, however. in case of an
open installation of a Masonic Lodge, the Grand Master must first approve the location as suitable to the solemnity of the installation ceremony; and provided further that no liquor shall be served to or consumed
by members or guests during such installation ceremony; and provided
further that, except for ritualistic purposes or as hereinabove and as in
sec. 324.l otherwise specified, no intoxicating liquor shall be used, served
or consumed at any Masonic meeting or gathering nor shall any intoxicating liquor be sold, dispensed, given away, or consumed in a Masonic
Temple or building being used for Masonic purposes, and, furthermore.
except as provided in Section 321.1 no Master Mason shall knowingly
attend or be present at any regular or special meeting within the States

226"

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of California or Hawaii of a Masonic group, organization, lodge. or body
which is held or assembled in any building, temple or place owned or
operated by a Masonic Lodge, organization or body requiring as a prerequisite to membership therein that a person be a Master Mason, when
intoxicating liquor is sold, served, given away, or permitted to be sold,
given away or dispensed in such building or temple, or in which an intoxicating liquor bar is then being operated."
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
(NOTE: The proponent of Resolution No. 39 then mooed the adoption
of the language of that resolution as a substitute for the abooe. On
vote by Grand Lodge. the substitute language was not adopted.)
A simple majority voted for Recommendation (3 ). Failing a 5/6
vote, the matter was held over until the 1967 Annual Communication as
a "Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances." (Sec. 783 C.M.C.)

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
As to Recommendation ( 6), the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED: That a new section, to be numbered section
515.1. be added to the California Masonic Code, to read as follows:
"Sec. 515.1. Compliance with law of foreign jurisdictions. A member
of a Lodge of this jurisdiction, when within another jurisdiction, shall
obey and be subject to the Masonic law of such other jurisdiction and
also to the Masonic law of this jurisdiction which is consistent with the
practice, policy or law of such other jurisdiction. A member of a Lodge
of this jurisdiction may not do anything within this territorial jurisdiction
in violation of the Masonic law of this jurisdiction whether he resides or
is in or out of this territorial jurisdiction,"
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That sub-sections 334h and 515c
of the California Masonic Code be rescinded.
The Committee on Policy and Grneral Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
As to Recommendation {4), the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED: That a new section, to be numbered section
515.2, be added to the California Masonic Code, to rea d as follows:
"Sec. 515.2. All members of organizations within the territorial jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, the prerequisite of membership wherein is
tha t a person be a Master Mason, shall be subject to the same standards
of conduct and propriety as are or may be imposed upon Master Masons
in this jurisdiction."
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

227

The Committee. on Jurisprudence:
As to Recommendation ( 5}, the following resolution:
"BE IT RESOLVED: That section 513 of the California Masonic
Code be and it is hereby repealed, and that the decisions and annotations
contained in sub-sections 513a to 513k, inclusive, and sub-sections 541 g
683av and 683ax be rescinded."
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.
(NOTE: By separate action of Grand Lodge the original language in
the second rf?'solution proposed in Recommendation (5) by the Committee on furisprudence reading as follows: "BE IT RESOLVED: That
section 408 of the California Masonic Code be amended by deleting
therefrom the following: 'nor shall any such liquors be used or served at
any Masonic banquet or gathering.'" was not adopted.)
At 12:48 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 p.m.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thursday, October 13, 1966
At 2:00 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Walter R. Ringwald.
Master of Santa Monica Lodge No. 307. The invocation was delivered
by the Grand Chaplain.

Week. and in recent years our activity in this approved Grand Lodge
program has steadily increased . We h ave been urged to maintain year:round interest in and support of the programs and activities of our
public schools. Repeatedly we have been reminded of the vital and farreaching importance of safe-guarding and strengthening our public
schools system. That we should not be permitted to discuss the issues
confronting our schools. and the nature of the leadership of our schools.
seems totally inconsistent with our already adopted and proclaimed
policy of full support of our public schools. For the Masons in California to intelligently support our public schools requires as much
understanding of the problems of the schools as possible. Presentation
and discussion of school issues in a Lodge meeting can do much to add
to that understanding. Your Committee believes that Resolution No. 1 is
proper, timely and much needed.
We now move the adoption of R esolution N o. 1 and recommend a
yes vote.
We are au thori~ed to report that the Committee on Public Schools
concurs in this report.
The Committee on furisprudence, to which C ommittee was referred
Resolution No. 1. recommends that the first sentence of Section 331 be
amended to read as follows:
Statewide public schools welfare is a proper subject for discussion
in Lodges, as well as the subject of school bonds and school taxes; provided however, that no action may be taken by any Lodge to endorse.
approve or disapprove any candidate, bond or tax issue.
Adopted as amended 5/ 6 vote.

228

LODGE DISCUSSIONS ON PUBLIC SCHOOL
CANDIDA TES, BONDS, TAXES

(1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, for 47 years the Masons in California and Hawaii
have actively supported our Public School Systems; and
WHEREAS. individual Masons should be inspired and encouraged
to serve on local school boards; and
WHEREAS. School bonds and taxes are vital toward the continuation of our Public School Systems;
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED: that these matters may be
discussed in Lodge meetings but that action by the Lodge to endorse
or disprove any candidate, bond or tax issue is expressly prohibited .
HERBERT A. HUEBNER, P.M .. No. 445
GEORGE E. HIAIT, P.M.. No. 247
NoRBERT P. TESTER, P.M .. No. 384
ROLLAND F. ATWOOD, P.M .. No. 12
RICHARD H. DuTWrLER. P.M .. No. 622
FRANKLIN C. PoITER, M .. No. 666
EDWIN N. STANSEL, P.M .. No. 421
PETER B. FLORIO, P.M .. No. 42
JoHN R. NocAs, M., No. 537
HOLLIS G. HARTLEY. P.M., No. 348
CLYDE M . STINE, J. W., No. 560
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Public Schools.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Proposed Resolution No. I seeks to place in the California Masonic
Code clear permission and authority for discussion in Lodge meetings
of matters pertaining to the welfare of public schools locally as well
as statewide. Section 331 C.M.C. permits discussion in a Lodge meeting
of statewide public schools welfare. However the California Masonic
Code is silent as to the discussion of local public schools welfare within
our Lodge meetings. Most Lodge officers have considered such discussion as being improper because they have deemed public schools issues,
which are to be voted upon by the voters of a school district. as political
in nature and thus banned from discussion in a Lodge meeting. For the
past 47 years the Masons in California have sponsored Public Schools

STA TED .MEETINGS -

229

RELIGIOUS CONFLICTS

(2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of C alifornia:
WHEREAS , Jn 1966. by coincidence, the H ebrew Passover and
the Christian Holy week preceding Easter Sunday occurred during the
first week of the calendar month and
WHEREAS . The same situation might occur involving O rthodox
Christian or festivals of other religious groups whose members are members of Masonic Lodges in this jurisdiction and
WHEREAS . This same coincidence will again occur from time to
time,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED . That C.M.C. Section
18. 50 and 121. 15th duty and 121-g and other pertinent sections be
revised accordingly so that our Most Worshipful Grand Master may
grant dispensation, on formal request of any Lodge made by resolution
adopted at a Stated meeting thereof. to authorize that Lodge to change
the date of its Stated meeting during the month specified and as here in~
dicated :

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1 -Advance the date not more than 1 week.

2 - Postpone the date not more than 2 weeks or to the 15th day of
that month. whichever first occurs.
3 - The request by the Lodge shall be made sufficiently in advance,
but not over 3 months, so that the members thereof shall be
notified of the change at the preceding Stated Meeting.
4 - Not more than 2 such requests be granted any Lodge during any
calendar year.
5 - Any Lodge considering it necessary to make more than 2 such
requests during any calendar year s hall be directed by the Grand
Master through the Grand Secretary to commence proceedings
to permanently change the date of its Stated meeting.
Respectfully submitted,

D. EWING MA RSH . P .M., No. I
EDWARD C. LOHMEYER , P.M., No.
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

CREA TE -

MASONIC TEMPLES FUND
(3)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
It is proposed to all the members of Grand Lodge that a perfectly
good way to assure that a Lodge desiring to build a new Templ.e, ~o~ld
accomplish this desire by an assessment of each member of the Jurisdiction for $1.00 per member per year, this would create in one yea r a Fund
of over $250.000.00 and this amount would be increased by that sum
each year, then as a n ew or old Lodge or even a small group of ~od~es
made known their desires to build a Temple they could make apphcat10n
for a loan on an interest free basis to the above mentioned Grand Lodge
Fund who would take a Mortgage on the newly proposed Temple. repayment can be made the same as a homeowner pays his mortgage off.
just like rent; and
WHEREAS. There is a great need for such a "Fund" since many
small Lodges are sometimes required to exist in a "less than desired"
condition for many years before they are able to realize their dreams of
having a "Home" of their own; and
WHEREAS. the reason for this condition, is that not too many
Masons are rich enough to donate large sums to their own Temple Funds
a large enough amount to do the job adequately, especially with constantly rising land prices and building costs. Temple Associations are
finding that even if they find a choice piece of land at a reasonable price,

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

231

it may be sold or the price jumps up by the time the Lodge Members can
scrape up enough money to buy, thus Masonry in that Lodge is thwarted
by conditions beyond its control; a nd
WHEREAS. when we face the facts, there are very few ways that
a Lodge can legally raise: funds and still maintain the dignity of Masonry
as is required by Grand Lodge, and then the few dolla rs raised legally
are so paltry that the Brethren become discouraged in such a slow attempt to raise money that they soon falter; and
WHEREAS . it is well known that "Success Begets Success" and if
Masonry, all over California, could put forth a more prosperous front by
being able to build in a community, a Temple compatible with many
other well known institutions, then Masonry in this state would more
properly reflect a successful image to the community in general; and
WHEREAS. the proposed "Fund" would constantly grow each
year and while it would fluctuate by the va rious loans made against it,
the fact becomes obvious that after a few years it would become large
enough that by the same prudent investment, as the HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND of the amount not being used the dividends themselves
would provide enough to operate on, and in the some distant future such
assessment could be dropped. but in the meantime such assessment for
most Masons would be hardly felt, surely most of the Masons feel
enough pride in their Fraternity to give the insignificant sum of $1.00
per year to help put Masonic Lodges into proper Masonic Temples
which every Mason can point with pride, it is certainly a small enough
amount to ask.
THEREFORE . BE IT RESOLVED : That beginning with January
I 967 each dues paying member of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California and Hawaii will pay $1.00 in addition to
his regular dues which shall be an assessment to be held in a separate
account by the Grand Lodge Treasurer. such amounts thus collected to
form " The Masonic Temples Fund of California and Hawaii."
The Grand Master shall be responsible each year to appoint a Body
of Trustees of said Fund who will approve and make loans to worthy
Lodges on an " Interest Free" basis following receipt of a properly executed application for such Loan (such application form to be devised
by Grand Lodge) a Mortgage to be given by the applying Lodge to the
Grand Lodge Trustees and the details of such transactions to be handled
by existing Advisory Committees, all such payments by the Lodges to
be adjusted by the individual Lodge's ability to pay (such as size of membership and annual income of Lodge) and over the necessary period of
time required in accordance with the amount of the Loan.
The Trustees shall determine the actual cost of all paperwork etc.,
necessary to consumate the individual transactions and shall charge such
actual costs to the Lodge making such Loan with such costs to be kept at
a minimum.

233

PROCEEDI NGS OP THI!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Trustees will re·deposit all repayments to the account of the
Fund as received. The Fund Trustees will be required to invest all funds
not being used in such a manner that the highest rate of interest or
dividends ma y be earned as possible (the advice of the finance committee to be available as required) and such investment to be made in a
manner as to make the funds a vailable a t all times for the p urpose of
making loans to the Lodges as required.
An annual printed report of the audited condition of the Fund shall
be made available and read at the annual Communicatio n of Grand
Lodge showing the complete condition of the Fund.
It is further stipulated that in future years, if a condition arises where
a saturation point is rea ched and a considerable amount of money exists
in the Fund over and above the amount required to operate, then at
the discretion of the Grand Lodge such excess shall be added to the
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund if needed/ or to be used to the best
advantage deemed feasible by Grand Lodge. *
"An argument submitted by these members was deleted.

The resolution as presen tly drawn is unfair to the majority of Masonic Lodges:
a. A great many Lodges have no intention of ever building a Masonic Temple and would therefore obtain no benefit from the plan.
b. A grea t man y Lodges have already fo rmed T emple Associations
a nd erected Temple buildings with private fina ncin g a nd would therefore obtain no benefi t from the resolution, even though required to contribute to it.
c. Many Lodges are now struggling to meet expenses. Some of these
have existing buildings or building programs, a nd to require an additional
assessment o f $1 .00 per member would be completely unfair as to such
Lodges.
The sense of obligation which the members of a particular Lodge feel
towa rd a commercial lending institution would proba bly not exist toward
Grand Lodge as a lending institution. As a result, some Grand Lod ge
loa ns might res ult in defaults , thereby causing a foreclos ure proceeding
and disharmony and disunity within Masonry.
The resolution in no way spells out the procedure to be followed or
the policies to be adopted in the acceptance o f applications and gra nting
of loans . An a ttempt to spell out, in detail. the administration problems
and methods would. w e feel , point out to the persons submitting this resolution that it will do little or nothing to "more properly reflect a successful image to the community in general," but. on the contrary, it
would, in the opinion of this Committee, work to the detriment of M asonry in general and create more disunity tha n prosperity.

232

Respectfully submitted,
MELBOURNE W. Scorr. P.M .. No. 765
HAROLD C. MCLENDON, P.M .. No. 765
PHILIP F. LucAs, P.M .• No. 765
ERNEST D. JARVIS, M .. No. 207

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, on Finance, and on Lodge Fina ncing.

The Committee on Lodge Financing:
The Committee on Lodge Financing, and each of its members in·
dividually. as opposed to Resolution No. 3 and recommend a no vote
for the following reasons :
The "Whereas" clauses of the resolution do not set forth sufficient
grounds to support the resolution.
The resolution would put Grand Lodge into the lending business,
for which business it is not properly equipped. The Committee handling
the loans would be required to retain professional appraisers, set up a
collection system, establish interest rates required, establish local in·
spection and loan investigation systems. and , in general, esta blish or
hire the personnel a nd business system necessary to make and service
real estate loans.
Under the plan, Grand Lodge would have available approximately
$250,000.00 per year for this purpose. The Committee or Trustees of
the fund therefore would undoubtedly be required to pick and choose
among applicants for the loans . A general feeling of ill- will would be
created, contrary to the basic principles of Free Masonry.

The Committee qn Finance:
There has been referred to the Committee on Finance Resolution No.
3 relating to the creation of a fund designed to serve as a so-called mortgage bank for constituent Lodges.
The resolution spea ks of surplus funds being invested by trustees of
such funds in s uch a manner as to earn the highest ra te of interes t or
dividends, for investments to be made in a manner as to make the principal of the fu nd available a t all times for the p urpose of making interestfree loans as needed, a nd for investments to be made on the advice of
the Finance Committee as and w hen required. We point out that the
investment of Grand Lodge fu nds is made by the Investment Committee
an d it is to be assu med that investment of monies in a fund s uch as the
one proposed in this resolution would have to be assigned to the In vestment Committee as provided by Section 245 C .M.C.
Grand Lodge, as a proposed mortgage lender, would no doubt be
called upon to consider requests for the refinancing of mortgages already made by private lenders. Obviously, Lodges which have outstand·
ing obligations would be most anxious to be relieved of onerous interest
burdens. Grand Lodge would need to adopt a proper method of securing

234

PROCEEDINGS op· THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

loans to Lodges and be prepared to enforce loan repayments from time
to time; otherwise Grand Lodge could become the eventual owner of
constituent Lodge properties.
If the resolution has merit, and it is the conclusion of the Finance
Committee that it does not, loans to Lodges would have to be secured in
a safe and prudent manner, and amortization or repayment of loans
should be on a basis consistent for all Lodges.
All records relating to the granting of loans to Lodges, the collection
of payments, and the multitudinous details would have to be maintained
in the Grand Secretary's office and be reviewed by Grand Lodge auditors. Notwithstanding that the resolution provides for certain administrative charges to recipient Lodges. the Finance Committee is concerned
with the burden to be imposed upon the Grand Secretary's office and
with the expenses to be incurred by fund trustees should this resolution
be approved, all of which would have to be met by all Lodges through
the Grand Lodge additional per capita tax, even though all Lodges will
not, or cannot. avail themselves of the proposed fund's benefits.
The Finance Committee regards as wholly inequitable the thought
that Advisory Committees or Trustees would be empowered to grant
flexible terms to Lodges seeking financing. thus creating dissatisfaction
on the part of Lodges which do not receive terms as favorable as others.
Your Committee on Finance recommends a no vote.
The Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recommendations.
A majority voted against the resolution.

Sec. 134a. Powers, cont. Change of Time of Stated Meeting.
14th.
To issue dispensations to change the date of a stated
meeting upon such notice to the members of the Lodge as the Grand
Master may require.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all decisions and provisions
of the California Masonic Code in conflict with the foregoing resolution
be rescinded and annulled.
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER , P.M ., No. 344
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.

GRAND MASTER - LIMITED AUTHORITY TO
CHANGE TIME OF STATED MEETINGS
(4)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the changing of the date of a stated meeting for one
meeting when required for good and sufficient reason is a complicated
procedure: and
WHEREAS, the Grand Master, under our present law, has no
authority to issue dispensations for this purpose, and
WHEREAS, it seems desirable to give the Grand Master this authority and eliminate the necessity of amending the By-Laws to provide
for such change and then re-amending them again to restore the original
meeting date;
NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that a new section to
the California Masonic Code be adopted to read as follows:

235

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 1 purposes to extend the powers of the Grand Master
to allow him to issue a dispensation to a Lodge to change the time or
date of a Stated Meeting.
our Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes this proposal
is very practical and would eliminate the need to amend their by-laws to
provide for the change of time or date for some particular Stated Meeting and then re-amend them to restore the original time or date.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence reports on Resolutions No. 2 and
No. 4 as follows:
It appears to us that the proposed Resolution No. 4 is in proper form
but should be given a different number and that several sections of the
C.M.C. should be repealed. Resolution No. 2 will be covered by this
resolution and does not require additiona I legislation. We, therefore,
submit the following resolution.
RESOLVED. that a new section be added to the California Masonic
Code reading as follows:
Sec. 134.1. Powers, continued. Change of time of Stated Meeting.
14th. To issue dispensations to change the date of a stated meeting
upon such notice to the members of the Lodge as the Grand Mas ter
may require.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Sections 18a, 121g, 323a
and 343c be and they are hereby repealed and deleted.
We move the adoption of the resolution and urge a yes vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote:.

236

PROCE EDING S OF THE

CLA RIFY DEF INIT ION OF "ED ICTS " AND
SPEC IFY
GRA ND MAS TER 'S DEC ISIO NS PRO PER
LY
ADO PTE D BY GRA ND LOD GE AS " EDIC
TS"

(5)
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A.
M . of California:
WHE REA S, the Old Regu lation s of 1721 provi
ded that, "Eve ry
Annu al Gran d Lodg e has an inher ent powe r to make
new regulations, or
alter these, for the real benefit of the ancie nt frater
nity," and,
WHE REA S, a Requ lation is and has been defin
ed as, "Any resolution, edict. law or ordin ance of any kind what ever,
other than the Constitut ion. which it may adop t". and,
WHE REA S, M. W . John Stew art Ross. P.G.M
.. in his prefa ce to
"Dig est of Decisions," secon d edition, 1932, which
was comp iled, approve d and published pursu ant to the direction of
Gran d Lodge, state d
in part, " Inasmuch as it is only the Decisions of
the Gran d Mast er that
are subm itted to Gran d Lodge for adopt ion, and becom
e Regu lation s, not
neces sarily in the form subm itted, but in the form
adop ted by Gran d
Lodge. I have welcomed quest ions by Mast ers on
the construction of our
laws, " and further,
"These Decisions, I have rende red as Gran d Mast
er. toget her with
appro ved Decisions and Regu lation s adop ted from
1850 to and including
the annual communication of 1931, are hereb y repor
ted to you for your
consi derat ion," and.
WHE REA S. V. W. John Whic her, Gran d Secre
tary. stated in an
appre ciatio n in said Dige st of Decisions, "The
Dige st will repla ce the
Decisions heret ofore publi shed with the Cons tituti
on," and,
WHE REA S, M. W. John Stew art Ross , P .G.M
.. in his prefa ce to
the "Con stitution and Ross Dige st," published by
order of Gran d Lodg e
in 1940, sta ted, "Dec ision s of Gran d Mast ers becom
e Edicts only when
and as adop ted by Gran d Lodge. In instances wher
e the Jurisp ruden ce
Comm ittee has recom mend ed the modificatio n of
a Decis ion, and Gran d
Lodg e has adop ted the modification, the repor
t of the Jurisp ruden ce
Comm ittee only is given ," and,
WHE REA S , M. W . John Stew art Ross , P .G .M
.. in his prefa ce to
the afore said "Con stitut ion and Ross Dige st," also
stated , "The Constitution and Regu lation s are anno tated by puttin
g unde r each section all
other sections that are appli cable to that partic ular
section. Sections referr ed to by numbers unde r 400 are to be found
in the Cons tituti on and
Ordin ances; over 400. are eithe r Edict s or Resolution
s .. . . ," and ,
WHE REA S, such sections numbered over 400
in said Ross Dige st
are given the headi ng of
" EDIC TS AND RES OLU TION S OF THE
GRA ND LOD GE
OF CAL IFOR NIA IN EFF ECT OCT OBE R 12.
1939," and.

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIF ORNIA

237

WHE REA S, when the Calif ornia Maso nic Cod_e
super seded the
stitution and Ross Dige st, all matters conta ined
m the latter were
ca~~ied into the Calif ornia Maso nic Code with no inten
t to cha~ge or
alter any of the provisions, only changing the form
of P~.esentatio_n s~
to list the Edict s and Resolutions alpha betic ally,
as an ~nnotat1on.
as der the appro priate sections of the Cons tituti on
and Ordin ances . and
~~ndensing the subje ct matte r. which in no wise opera
ted to destr oy or
weak en their autho rity. and.
WHE REA S. it thus appea rs that a Decis ion of
a G~and Mast er.
when and as adop ted by Gran d Lodge. becom
es an Edict of Gran d
Lodg e, and,
..
WHE REA S. an Edict is defined by Web ster's
!?icti onary as, an
official public proclamation havin g the force of
law, and,
..
WHE REA S, according to Mack ey's Maso nic
Juri~prudence, A
Gran d Lodge canno t perm anent ly alter or repea l
any of _its By-La.w~ or
Regu lation s excep t in the mode whic h it has itself
provided. for it is a
maxim of law, that the same means are neces sary
to dissolve as to creat e
an oblig ation ," and.
..
WHE REA S, Section 70, Anno tation a, provides
that, Ever y rule
or regulation ordai ned by Gran d Lodg e fo~ the _g
oo~ g?ver nmen t of_ t~e
Craft is so far perpe tual that it must conti nue rn
bmdm g force until m
Gran d Lodge. it shall have been repealed or modi
fied," and,
.
WHE REA S. the autho rity. as a law of bindi ng force
, of the vano us
anno tation s in the Calif ornia Maso nic Code is not
fully unde rstoo d, e~.en
in high places a s is indicated by the repor t of the
Committee on Po tcy
and Gene ral Pur.poses at the 116th Annu al Commu
nicatio~, as set .~orth
on page 246 of the 1965 Proce eding s, which repor
t stated , m part. The
anno tation s in our code or those in the nume rous
state
part of any such code. In our code. they are a conde codes . are not ~
nsed statem_ent_o
what some Gran d Mast er, or Committee, has said
abou t the apph catto n
of the section to some partic ular set of facts, " and.
WHE REA S, what ever its applicability to state'
s codes , such state~
ment is not in accor d with the backg round , inten
t and hone st unde rstand ing of our Maso nic law. but.
WHE REA S . it migh t be taken by some perso ns
as autho ritativ e.
THE REF ORE BE IT RESO LVE D. that this
G~and Lod.ge does
re-affirm the stand ing of all anno tation s in the Calif
ornia Maso mc Cod~
which are based on Gran d Mast er's Decis ions
appro ved _by Gr~n
Lodge. with or witho ut modification, as existi ng appro
ved Edict s havm g
the effect of law in this jurisdiction, and,
BE IT FUR THE R RES OLV ED. that a new sen~~
nce be a~~ed to
Section 70 of the Calif ornia Maso nic Code, readi
ng. Any Dec1s1on of
a Gran d Mast er. when and as adopt ed by Gran
d Lodge. becomes an
Edict of Gran d Lodg e." and.
C

238

239

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that. in view 0£ the importance
0£ an approved Decision of a Grand Master, it having the effect of law,

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has read and considered R esolution No. 5, which proposes in part to amend Section 70 of the California
Masonic Code by adding thereto a sentence read ing, "Any decision of
a Grand Mas ter, when and as adopted by Gra nd Lodge, becomes an
edict of Grand Lodge."
Such an amendment is entirely redundant and unnecessary as the
Grand M aster's decisions, w hen approved by Grand Lodge. are adopted
by resolution and Section 70 presently provides that any resolution
passed by the Grand Lodge is a regulation thereof, a nd thus becomes
part of the body of Masonic law .
Resolution No. 5 also provides, in effect, tha t any Grand Master's
decision, which is not repeti tive of something already codified, must be
submitted to the Grand Secretary 90 days before the Grand Lodge's
Annual Communication or it cannot be acted upon until the Annual
Communication of the nex t succeeding year.
We are unalterably opposed to such a provision. Some of th e Grand
Master's decisions will be rendered or possibly altered within the 90 day
period prior to Grand Lodg e and all of his decisions should be acted
upon by the Communication over which he presides and at the earliest
possible time. It would add nothing but confusion and uncertainty to
require that these decisions be left una pproved by Grand Lodge for over
a year and until the next Annual Communication.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

a new sentence shall be added to Section 781 of the California Masonic
Code, reading, "Any Decision 0£ a Grand Master, except those which
are repetitive of matters already codified, shall not receive the approval
0£ Grand Lodge and be codified, unless such Decision shall have been
submitted to the Grand Secretary in accordance with the provisions of
this Section; all others shall be unfinished business to be taken up for
final action at the next s ucceeding Grand Lodge Communica tion."
WILSON 0 . WADE, P .M., No. 328
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on P olicy and General
Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The only policy question involved in this resolution is found in the
concluding paragraph which provides, in effect, that any decision of a
Grand Master, except those repetitive 0£ matters already codified, shall
not receive the approval of Grand Lodge unless such decision shall have
been submitted to the Grand Secretary at least ninety days prior to the
commencement date of the next Annual Communication.
There is a fundamental difference between a decision of the Grand
Master interpreting existing law and a resolution seeking to change the
law. When the Grand Master is called upon to render a decision he
interprets the existing la w as set forth in our Constitution and Ordinances in light of the facts presented. Conversely, a resolution, presumably, changes or alters the existing law. In this latter case the brethren
should have an opportunity to view and consider in advance the proposed changes in the law. But your Policy Committee believes tha t such
advance notification is not necessary for decisions of the Grand Master
which only interpret existing law.
A resolution can be prepared in advance without difficulty. This is
not necessarily true of the decisions of the Grand Master. A situation
may develop within ninety days of the Annual Communication which
requires the Gra nd M aster to render his decision on an important matter.
This decision, except by emergent procedure, would remain unapproved
or in limbo for a period in excess of one year. Such uncertainty on
important matters is undesirable.
Lastly the resolution would crea te two classes of decisions; those
which are repetitive of matters already in the annotations and those
decisions which are not repetitive. If a decision is in one class it would
have to be filed with the Grand Secretary; if in the other class, it would
not have to be filed. Two classes of decisions would create confusion in
the law of Grand Lodge and the resolution fails to provide who would
decide, as to each decision, in which class it would fall.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a no
vote.

CERTIFICATE OF RECOGNITION (6)

LONG SERVICE

T o the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS : It has been a custom among the fraternity of F ree and
Accepted M asons from time immemorial, at th e request of a Master in
recognition of long-rendered service to his Lodge on the part of a deserving brother in such capacities as secretary, treasurer, tiler, chaplain,
officers' coach, head candidates' coach, master pro tern at fu nerals, to
petition the Grand Master to pass the chair which entitled that brother
to part of the rights and honors and to enable him to gain further light
in the capacity of virtual Pas t Master which in no way entitled him to
the rights and prerogatives of an actual Past M aster; and
WHEREAS: It is against the teachings and precepts of the Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California to confer
such a title as virtual Past M aster; and
WHEREAS : There a re deserving brothers of some special recognition of long and satisfactory service rendered to many of our Lodges;

240

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED: That the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California devise and design
a certificate of recognition of long and outstanding service to Freemasonry which can be conferred upon deserving brothers who have
served their Lodges in a capacity such as stated above;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That these certificates be awarded upon due petition by the Master of the Lodge served by the deserving
brother to the Grand Master.
I respectfully suggest that the Grand Master reject all petitions
where the service is less than twenty-five ( 25) years. I also recommend
that a suitable ritual and certificate forms be drawn up and printed.
Respectfully submitted,
ELMER W. JOHNSON, M., No. 225

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Pmposes, and on
Ritual.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which Resolution No. 6 entitled "Certificate of Recognition-Long Service" has been
referred, reports as follows:
The preamble of this resolution reminds us of the many brothers who
have rendered long and distinguished service to their several Lodges,
and the resolution itself would have Grand Lodge devise and design a
certificate of recognition as well as a suitable ritual for its presentation.
It also would place upon the Grand Master the duty of approving each
application for such a certificate.
Your Committee is pleased to note that the Lodge officers of the
many deserving and long serving brothers are anxious to confer a special award upon them, but we feel that there are many other more personal ways of expressing appreciation to them, such as a special evening
in their honor with their many friends present. We feel that a ritualistic
presentation of another certificate to add to an already bulging card case
is not the .m ost appropriate means. We also hesitate to recommend a
plan which would add another burden to an already overworked Grand
Master, or another ritual to be memorized by Lodge officers.
The Committee on Ritual concurs in this report.
We, therefore, move the adoption of this resolution, but the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

24 1

CERTIFICATE OF RECOGNITION CANDIDATES COACHES
(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, most important to Freemasonry are the teachings that
have been handed down since the days of King Solomon, and
WHEREAS, the Fraternity holds in just respect and honors each
year the teachers in our Public Schools, and
WHEREAS, wtihin our own Fraternity are brethren who year after
year give of their time and effort to act as candidate's coaches, thereby
becoming teachers of Freemasonry, and
WHEREAS, without these dedicated brethren the Fraternity would
soon cease to exist, and
WHEREAS, the Fraternity should endeavor to honor its own teachers in some way,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
That the Grand Lodge cause to be printed and made available to
constituent Lodges a suitable certificate*, which the constituent Lodges
shall be permitted to confer upon candidate's coaches at the discretion
of the Master of a cons tituent Lodge; which will in a small way acknowledge the brotherly love and affection that is evidenced by said coaches
in giving of their time and effort and becoming teachers within our Fraternity.
* (Suggested copy. can be seen in the office of the Grand Secretary.)
CHARLES 0. SCHAUB, M., N o. 437
EDWARD A. WHITE, S. W., No. 437
WALTER LocKE, f .W., No. 437
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.
The Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual, to which has been presented Resolution
No. 7, reports as follows:
Resolution No. 7 proposes "That the Grand Lodge cause to be
printed and made available to constituent Lodges a suitable certificate.
which the constituent Lodges shall be permitted to confer upon candidate's coaches at the discretion of the Master of a constituent Lodge;
which will in a small way acknowledge the brotherly love and affection
that is evidenced by said coaches in giving of their time and effort and
becoming teachers within our Fraternity ."
At the 1962 Communication of this Grand Lodge, the then Grand
Lecturer, Very Worshipful Donald G . Campbell, in his annual report
outlined the program for candidate education to be utilized in the con-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

stituent Lodges through the use of the Handbook for Candidate Coaches.
The program, adopted by this Grand Lodge, provides that "candidates'
coaches be presented , after properly qualifying, with a certificate of recognition, as well as a copy of the Candidates Coaches Handbook."
The program was put into effect in 1963, with the Senior Warden,
representing the Master, being in charge of the program of candidate
education, supervised by the Inspector of the District. An appropriate
"Certificate of Qualification and Appointment" is included in the Handbook. to be signed by the Senior Warden as Recommender, appointed
and signed by the Master, and approved by the Inspector of the District.
The program now in effect sets certain standards for qualifying for
the Certificate of Qualification and Appointment, both from the standpoint of ritual and Masonic information. The certificate is not conferred
at the discretion of the Master or any other person - it is earned in
accordance with an established program.
In view of the conflict between this Resolution and an already established procedure of recognition of our Candidates Coaches which is more
comprehensive in scope, we recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

Date: ....................................................•.....................
Place: ..........................................................................
Masonic Lodge officiating: ........................................
Worshipful Master's name: ....................................
Lodge Officer or Officers officiating: ......................
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Grand Lodge have these
pamphlets available to all Lodges in this jurisdiction, upon request, for
a small fee.
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. ANDREWS, II,
RAYMOND KENTRO, S. W., No. 620
M., No. 620
CHARLES T. PADGITT,
HowARDS. FISHER, P.M .. No. 620
P.M., No. 620
]oHN H. KERR, P.M.. No. 620
OTIS N. PRESLEY, P.M., No. 620
HAROLD K. RANKIN, P.M .• No. 620 MEREDITH W. GOLDSTEIN,
LYLE E . FOOTE, P.M., No. 760
P .M .• No. 620
PHILIP G. MARSH , P .M .. No. 620
KENNETH D . TAYLOR,
WALTER V. TISDALE,
P.M., No. 620
P.M .• No. 620
LLOYD E. VoNTUNGELN,
H. H. RALPH AIMAN,
P .M ., No. 620
P.M ., No. 37
SIMON F. BOLGER, P.M., No. 35
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

242

FUNERAL SERVICE-FAMILY COPY
(8)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. there is no provision in the California Masonic Code
for the presentation of the Masonic Funeral Service in appropriate pamphlet form to the widow or next of kin of the deceased brother, and,
WHEREAS. the funeral service as revised by Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, October, 1955, is ritual, yet monitorial, and
contains some of the most beautiful words and phrases written, and,
WHEREAS. at the time of funeral services it may be presumed this
fine Masonic service is beard and perhaps soon forgotten by the widow
or next of kin due to grief and sorrow, and,
WHEREAS. at a later date when the widow or next of kin may
wish to reflect on what was spoken during the funeral service, they cannot recall anything except that it was beautiful.
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that the proper Grand Lodge
Committee be directed to design and print a suitable pamphlet containing the Masonic Funeral Service, for presentation to the widow or next
of kin by the Lodge that officiated at the funeral service and at the
Lodge's discretion.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that this pamphlet contain a section for appropriate data, such as:

243

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Proposed Resolution No. B seeks authority to provide the widow or
next of kin of a deceased Master Mason with a suitable memorial copy
of the Masonic Funeral Service. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes unanimously agrees with the propriety of this proposal.
Our Masonic Funeral Service is a beautiful service, thoughtfully worded
and full of substance. We believe the survivors of a deceased brother
will have a greater appreciation of the stature and quality of Freemasonry if the opportunity is provided them to read and re-read the
beautiful and meaningful words of the Funeral Service.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
The Committee on Ritual concurred in the recommendation by the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Adopted.

APRONS FOR PAST GRAND OFFICERS
(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOLVED that for any Past Grand Lecturer, Past Grand
Secretary, Past Grand Treasurer. Past Junior Grand Warden, Past
Senior Grand Warden, or Pait Deputy Grand Master, who is not a
Past Grand Master, a st1itable apron shall be purchased and presented

244

PROCEEDING S OP THE

by the Grand Secretary to such person when he retires from the highest
of such offices. The provisions of this resolution shall be added to Section l 50e of the Masonic Code.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross. P.M .. No. 254
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Proposed Resolution No. 9 would authorize the presentation of special aprons to past elected Grand Lodge Officers who have not served
as Grand Master. While your committee agrees that suitable recognition of the services of distinguishe d brethren is both appropriate and
desirable, we feel that the proposal set forth in Resolution No. 9 is
impractical and could lead to a burdensome and complicated multiplicity
of designs, emblems and awards. This Grand Lodge has no prescribed
emblem for any of the past grand offices named in the resolution. The
awarding of special aprons to these past grand officers may very properly lead to the presentation of special aprons, and with them the accompanying special emblem designs, to certain of the appointive Grand
Lodge officers who have served our Grand Lodge in able fashion--or
even to all who have been appointed as Grand Lodge officers. If Grand
Lodge sets a pattern for this form of recognition, then the same recognition might properly be given to constituent Lodge officers who have
not served as Master of their Lodge. We are authorized to report that
the Jurisprudence Committee states there is no legal question involved,
and we are also authorized to state that the Finance Committee. concurs
with this report.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

NO MINATING COMMIT TEE
(IO)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . 6 AM. of California:
Amendmen t to Section 192 to provide for Nominating Committee;
new section to specify duties of Nominating Committee; Amendment to
Sections 174 and 176 to cover travel expenses.
WHEREA S. this Grand Lodge. in 1868. adopted a Resolution, stating in part, that, "Caucusing or electioneerin g to inRuence t~e votes of
members at Grand Lodge in the election of Grand Officers is contrary
to the letter and spirit of Masonry," and,
WHEREAS , such Resolution was described by the Grand Lodge
Jurispruden ce Committee in 1893 as an expression of opinion which
ought to have been sufficient to have prevented further offending, but
had not, and that the evil was intolerable, and.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

245

WHEREA S. Grand Master Nutting, in 1904, said, "Caucuses have
been held for the purpose of influencing the election of Junior Grand
Warden; letters have been written to representati ves of Lodges who will
attend Grand Lodge ... asking them to use their inRuence in behalf of
aspirants for the place.••. Now, brethren, this is all wrong ..•. Nothing will so surely mar our usefulness or more certainly strike a death
blow at the very foundation of our institution," and,
WHEREA S, the Grand Lodge Jurispruden ce Committee of 1904,
Grand Lodge concurring , stated, "The brother to be selected to the
office of Junior Grand Warden should be the free choice of a majority
of the members of Grand Lodge. uninfluenced by trade or combination
of any kind," and,
WHEREA S, the California Masonic Code, at Section 683 ( n).
states in part. "Electionee ring for office in any way, or the sending of
letters or holding of caucuses for the purpose of influencing the election
of Junior Grand Warden is improper and unmasonic," and,
WHEREA S, a letter dated March 3, 1966, addressed "TO ALL
INSPECTO RS. GRAND LODGE OFFICERS AND COMMITTEEMEN, " signed by one brother purportedly representing the Past
Grand Masters in Southern California, and by another brother purportedly representing the Past Grand Masters in Northern California, received wide distribution, presumably to 183 Inspectors, 28 Grand Lodge
Officers, and 317 Committeem en, which is to say to more than 500 active.
influential and highly placed Masons, which letter was intended to and
did recommend a bi;other by name to be elected to the office of Junior
Grand Warden: said letter in essence stating that the Past Grand Mas~
ters of Southern California, (or Northern California as the case might
be), have been in the habit of meeting together and selecting a brother
to be recommende d for election as Junior Grand Warden and, after
securing the concurrence of the Past Grand Masters of the other section of the state, making their recommenda tion known at a luncheon;
thereafter leaving it to be passed throughout the jurisdiction by word of
mouth. The Past Grand Masters now desire to make their recommenda tion by means of a signed communicat ion, addressed as noted above. in
which the qualifications of their choice were set forth, and,
WHEREA S. the Past Grand Masters have no authority or mandate from Grand Lodge to do the acts cited, and are thus, to all intents
and purposes, acting as a self appointed nominating committee. and,
WHEREAS , nominations for the office of funior Grand Warden are
not being permitted from the floor at Grand Lodge, and,
WHEREA S, such aforementio ned letter and tactics, tantamount to
a nomination. has been strategically placed in the hands of more than
500 influential and highly placed Masons scattered throughout the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge. and,

246

247

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS, such method of nomination by the Past Grand Masters
to more than 500 highly placed Masons makes it a practical impossibility for any other brother, no matter how highly qualified, to be elected
to the office of Junior Grand Warden, and,
WHEREAS, such tactics do not conform to the high standards hereinabove set forth and makes it practically impossible that,
"The brother to be selected to the Office of Junior Grand Warden
should be the free choice of a majority of the members of Grand Lodge,
uninfluenced by trade or combination of any kind," and
WHEREAS. a nominating committee is desirable because of the
great size of the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California, but such
committee should be provided for and act under the authority of Grand
Lodge, and should be fairly representative of all the members of Grand
Lodge, and,
WHEREAS, such a committee would be consistent with the sentiment expressed by Grand Master Nutting to the effect that,
"Consultation as to the best material is perfectly proper,"
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 192 of
the California Masonic Code shall be amended by adding thereto a new
standing committee to be known as,
"on Nominations,"
to be appointed by the Grand Master as provided in the Section, which
committee shall consist of eighteen members, six of whom shall be named
by the Grand Master from the Past Grand Masters and/or the elective
or appointive Grand Lodge Officers, including Inspectors, and twelve of
whom shall be named from the Masters, Wardens or Past Masters of
the constituent Lodges, two from each of the six general divisions provided for in Section 158 of the Code, none of which twelve shall be an
elective or appointive Grand Lodge Officer, including Inspectors, and,

tions as may appear necessary, shall be amended in such fashion as to
be consistent with the purposes herein implied.
WILSON 0. WADE, P.M., No. 328
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.
The Committee on Finance:
There has been referred to the Committee on Finance Resolution
No. 10 calling for a new Grand Lodge committee to meet annually in
San Francisco, at an appropriate and convenient time, for the purpose
of determining the name or names of one or more brothers to be placed
in nomination for the office of Junior Grand Warden of this Grand
Lodge at each Annual Communication.
The expense to be incurred annually as this proposed committee
meets cannot be determined in advance. An eighteen member committee, to be assembled from different sections of our jurisdiction, which
could include Hawaii on occasion, would have to plan a minimum of one
full day for deliberations, possibly more. Members from some areas
would have to arrive in San Francisco by the evening preceding the
day set for the meeting in order to be available for the meeting. For a
committee of the size proposed, it is quite probable that discussions and
determination of the name or names of candidates could not be concluded in one day. Its establishment as a Grand Lodge Standing Committee, or as a Special Committee, would have a bearing on the amount
to be appropriated for the committee. A conservative estimate of the
annual expense to be incurred would be $3500.00.
It is the opinion of this Committee that no new benefit or service will
accrue to Grand Lodge by the adoption of this resolution. The annual
cost to Grand Lodge, as indicated, will be sizeable and we must recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was referred Resolution No. l 0, reports as follows:
The three "resolving" paragraphs of this resolution would add a new
section, 207, to the C.M.C. and amend present Sections 192. 174 and
176, to provide as follows:
l ) A new standing Committee on Nominations would be created,
consisting of 18 members appointed by each Grand Master. Six of those
18 would be selected from the Past Grand Masters, the Inspectors and
the elective and appointive Grand Lodge officers. the remaining twelve
members would be Past Masters or Masters or Wardens of the constituent Lodges, two from each of the six Assistant Grand Lecturers' territorial divisions mentioned in C.M.C. 158.
2) The Committee on Nominations would be required to meet annually in San Francisco to determine by secret ballot the names of one or
more brethren to be nominated for the office of Junior Grand Warden-

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that there shall be added to the
California Masonic Code a new Section to be numbered 207 or other
appropriate number, which Section shall provide that,
"The Committee on Nominations shall meet annually in the City
of San Francisco at a convenient time and place for the purpose
of determining the names of one or more brothers to be placed in
nomination for the office of Junior Grand Warden. Should the
committee, by secret ballot taken among themselves, decide on the
name of one brother by a five-sixths majority vote, then the committee may name him only. If no brother shall receive a five-sixths
majority vote, then the committee shall name two or more brothers, each of whom shall have received a majority vote," and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Sections 174 and 176 of the
California Masonic Code covering travel expense, and any other Sec-

249

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

presumably at the next ensuing Communication. If any brother receives
the votes of a five-sixths majority, then the Committee "may" nominate
only that brother; if no brother receives a five-sixths majority vote, the
Committee is required to nominate two or more brothers but each of said
brethren must have received a majority vote.

ably certain that the friends of the several nominees would actively campaign on behalf of their respective preferences and solicit campaign
contributions.
We move the adoption of Resolution No. 10, but recommend a no
vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated its concurrence with the
above recommendations.
A majority voted against the resolution.
At 5 :45 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 7: 30 p.m.

248

3) The pertinent code sections would be amended so as to authorize
travel expenses for the Committee members.
4) It may be noted that the resolution does not authorize any nominations except those to be made by the Committee.
Before proceeding to discuss the merits of the proposal. your Committee on Policy and General Purposes expresses its disapproval of those
paragraphs of the resolution's preamble which adversely comment upon
the activities of our Past Grand Masters in connection with the elections
of Junior Grand Wardens in this year and in past years. It is simply not
true that those activities "do not conform to the high standards" of
Masonry, as asserted in the preamble.
In our opinion the past and present practice whereby the names of
brethren qualified for election as Junior Grand Warden have been
brought to the attention of Grand Lodge members has worked out well
and over the years has resulted in the election of a succession of men
whose devoted service to the Craft has been invaluable. By their experience our Past Grand Masters are better qualified than any other group
to recommend the names of qualified brethren. In contrast, we believe
it would be extremely improbable that officers of constituent Lodges in
northern California who would be members of a Nominating Committee,
would be sufficiently cognizant of the qualifications of a brother from a
Southern California Lodge to cast an intelligent vote for his nomination
as Junior Grand Warden; and, of course, the reverse would be true of
committee members from the south as to prospective Junior Grand
Wardens from the north.
On several occasions visitors from other Grand Lodges have expressed the wish that our presently prevailing practice could be adopted
in their jurisdictions. In at least one of the few Grand Lodges where
actual nominations are allowed, those who attend the annual communication find. prominently displayed in hotel lobbies, posters and placards
advertising the merits of candidates for election to Grand Lodge offices;
some candidates have been known to hold campaign dinner meetings or
stag parties at which liquid refreshments of some potency were dispensed .
If this resolution is adopted it can be confidently predicted that members of the Nominating Committee would be besieged with solicitations
for favorable consideration from supporters of various candidates, and
once the nomination of two or more brethren was announced, it is reason-

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EVENING SESSION-Thurs day, October 13, 1966

(Modernism) and in the church Atheistic Communism-Social ism
(Marxism).
Where : Darwinism (Evolution) is a denial of Parental authority.
Nietzcheism (Modernism) is a denial of Divine authority. Marxism
(Atheism-Commun ism-Socialism-Bols hevism) is a denial of all authority.
The Communists' M ain slogans are, "From every man according to
his ability and to every man according to his need," and "Production
for use and not for profit." Marxism uses these terms only to beguile
the hopeful public into believing that it is championing their Utopian
dreams when their only real purpose is to establish Illuminism over the
earth, and
WHEREAS , all authorities on the subject a gree, that 80 % of the
Communistic goal of Legislative action has already been achieved necessary toward the total takeover of the Government of the U.S.A ., and
WHEREAS, Communism has blanketed most of the surface of the
earth and M asonry has ceased to exist in every country ever taken over
by their insidious System. the latest Grand Lodge to fall was in Cuba
just 90 miles from our shores and where Masons are still imprisoned
simply because they are Masons and who don't believe in the Communist Conspiracy. The Masons in Cuba must have said or thought "O, it
couldn't happen here." But it did happen there and we must not delude
ourselves that it can't happen here, yes , in the most powerful country
in the world. while it is already known that there are in this country
an estimated Five Divisions of Red Troops ready to pick up their guns
and cripple the entire Nation by a Clever, well thought out plan. using
(the dupes) American Negroes.
Their diversionary tac tics have already started in well chosen strategic locations which you have reacl about vaguely in your controlled Press
Newspapers, and
WHEREAS. many of you Masons are already aware of the foregoing in your own way and may be wondering what or who is going to
do something about it. Let me tell you that if you a re wondering this,
it will have to be you who does something, not by yourself, but collectively as the Masonic Body. Remember this is not Political but completely Bi- Partisan. It is not Religious, yet, whatever you believe in, it
has to be God and God in your life is at stake, and no one denomination
but all denomina tions are in real danger.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT : The Grand Lodge of
California and Hawaii establish. by direction of the Grand Master (and
such direction to be sustained by each succeeding Grand Master), a
Committee to Plan, Devise and Execute Means of combating the devilish schemes of Communism, by means of the Printed word (the Truth)
and give lectures or by any other means deemed to be necessary by the

At 7:30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on. the Grand Mas ter presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

COMMITTEE TO COMBAT COMMUNISM
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the very structure and the moral fibre of Free and
Accepted Masons of California is being threatened from withi.n .a nd
without the Body of Masonry by the Cancerous growth of Socialism;
and,

WHEREAS. one of the areas where, despite the efforts of Masonry,
the Children attending the Public Schools are now and have been the
subject of nearly two generations of intense effort, on the part of. the
Socialists and Communists to endeavor to create in their supple minds
a large degree of apathy toward patriotism to Country and Community
and toward the Free Enterprise System , necessary to promote a dependency upon the State and Federal Bureaucratic Governments, which is
required to enable a takeover of this Country, and,
WHEREAS. in 1864 Ka rl Marx organized the "First International"
to carry out his ideas on a World Wide scale. Here he projected . the
program of Abolitions under the guise of a movement for the emancipation of the down trodden workers of the world, this was but a revival of
the Secret Society. which was formed on May 1, 1776 by Adam Weishaupt, named the "Illuminate." The creed of which was ( 1 ) Abolition
of Patriotism; (2) Abolition of present Government; (3) Abolition of
all Inheritance; ( 4) Abolition of private property; ( 5) Abolition of
Family; ( 6) Abolition of all Religion.

It was from this heinous creed that Marx and Engels drew up the
" Communist Manifesto" and in March of 1919 the Soviet Government
held the third International which has been from that day to this the
brains and the evil spirit behind world wide unrest. civil wars and revolutions in nearly every country on earth. Long ago Illuminists realized that
the three most important agencies for molding the mass mind were the
School. the Church and the Government. Therefore, they have concentrated their efforts mainly for many years upon the subversion of the
Teacher Training Schools, the Seminaries and the Law Schools in every
land. for these institutions turn out the leaders of the people. So they
promote the teachings of Darwinism in the schools (and lately John
Dewy's theories of progressive Education in the U .S. ). Of Neitzcheism

251

252

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Committ ee, the Committee may and should be dual in nature and construction being composed of Masons from both Northern and Southern
Californ ia and their continue d membership of this Committ ee to be conditioned by their active and worthy producea bility.
The Funds necessar y to the proper function of this Committ ee to be
provided from the Grand Lodge Treasury as required not to exceed
$1800.00 for any one year period. Furtherm ore the Grand Lodge Committee may solicit further funds by asking the membership for voluntar y
contribut ions.
MELBOU RNE W . Scon. P.M., No. 765
Referred to Committ ees on Jurisprud ence. on Policy and General
Purposes , and on Finance.

The. Committ ee on Finance:
There has been referred to your Committ ee on Finance Resolution
No. 11 which would provide for a new Grand Lodge Committ ee to combat communism.
Assumin g that Grand Lodge would approve the Fraterni ty entering
as a body into a program heretofo re consider ed to be in the domain of
the Mason as an individua l and as a citizen of his country, the resolution does not spell out in sufficient detail the basis for the requeste d
appropri ation of $1800.00. It is indicated by the wording in the last paragraph of the resolution that the proposed committee may solicit further
funds from Lodges and/or their members, that the Committee, in the
mind of its proposer , would have unlimited power to pursue its activities.
Your Committee on Finance cannot look favorabl y on this proposed
method of financing and, regardles s of any merit in the subject matter
of the resolution, must recomme nd a no vote.
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 11 seeks to establish a permane nt standing Committee to Plan, Devise and Execute Means of Combati ng the devilish
schemes of Commun ism.
The tenets of Freemas onry are unalterab ly opposed to Communism.
This oppositio n is nowhere more strongly expresse d than in our Public
Schools and Constitu tion Observa nce Committ ees. In working toward
the free public educatio n of our youth and the expande d Constitu tion
Observa nce Week the Craft is not only effectively combatin g Communism but is making better citizens of all the people in this nation. A
Committ ee on Communism would overlap these existing program s which
are now doing an outstand ing job.
Furtherm ore, there is already in existence the most effective Committee or body to fight Commun ism. It consists of the approxim ately
one quarter million Master Masons within this jurisdicti on. Individu ally

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

253

and collectively they constitut e one of the greatest forces to combat Communism available.
The Jurisprud ence Committ ee advises that no legal problem is
involved.
Your Committ ee moves the adoption of the resolution but recommends a no vote.
The Committ ee on f urisprudence indicated its concurre nce with the
above recomme ndations .
A majority voted against the resolution.

YOUT H COMM ITTEE
(12)
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, the Grand Lodge of Californ ia has a DeMola y committee, and
WHERE AS, the Internati onal Order of Job's Daughte rs and the
Internati onal Order of Rainbow for Girls are equal to the Internati onal
Order of DeMola y. in their relationship and association with the Masonic Fraterni ty, as follows:
1. They must be related to Master Masons in the case of Job's
Daughte rs and they usually are related to Master Masons or Eastern
Stars in the case of Rainbow Girls. Applicat ions for membership are
signed by Master.M asons or Eastern Stars.
2. Their Assembl ies and Bethels are sponsore d by Eastern Star
Chapters or individua l Masons and or Eastern Stars at large.
3. They hold their meetings in Masonic Temples and Lodge Rooms.
4. They and their activities are under the strict supervision of members of the M asonic Fraterni ty or Order of the Eastern Star.
5. Masonic teaching s and principles are definitely embodied in their
rituals and they were founded by Master Masons.
6. Their supervis ory boards or councils are compose d of Master Masons and or Eastern Stars, and
WHERE AS, the Jobs Daughte rs and Rainbow Girls are eq ual to
the DeMola ys in their aid and service to the Masonic Fraterni ty as
follows:
I. They are always engaged in various philanthr opic projects. especially with Masonic Homes, Shrine Hospital s. etc.
2. They serve Masonic Lodges and concorda nt bodies by escorting
t~e America ? .Flag. officers and visitors; serving dinners and washing
dishes; providin g entertain ment and giving talks; also aiding in many
other functions such as dances, parties and picnics.

255

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED: That the now existent DeMolay Committee of the Grand Lodge of California be replaced by a
youth Committee to include all of the Masonically Encouraged Y o.uth
Organizations: namely DeMolay. Job's D aughters and Rainbow Girls.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE F. AoAMS. S.W., No. 481
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
DeMolay.
.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

The constituent Lodges are familiar with the delinquent members'
special situation and can contact him personally. The necessary coordination and impetus can be provided by the office of the Grand Secretary.
the various Inspectors and, where necessary, the Grand Master.
We move the adoption of the resolution but recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

254

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS - INCREASE SIZE
(14)

SUSPENSIONS N. P. D.
(13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
WHEREAS, the Most Worshipful Grand Master. has repeatedly
called our attention to the loss of members through non-payment of dues
and the failure to reclaim a large number of these members for the welfare of Masonry. and
.
.
WHEREAS, the magnitude of such loss has become alarming in
relation to our gain and that there is no prescribed ~Ian, other than ~he
Lodge committee on delinquencies, which acts or fails to act, according
to motivation, and
.
WHEREAS, other major functions of the Grand Lodge are dt~ected
by committees which give aid, advice and direction to the constituent

c

·

Lodges.
NOW THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVE D . t h at a omm1ttee o f
the Grand Lodge be established by ORDINANCE fo~ the purpose ~f
giving impetus, coordination and direction to the cons~tuent Lodges in
an effort to halt the ever increasing growth of suspension f~r ~on-pay­
ment of dues, and to further develop a model plan for re-claiming members who have thus been suspended.
M N 647
JOHN A . OWEN , P. .. o .
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes the establishment of a special committee to
give impetus, coordination and direction to Lodges in an effort to halt
the increasing trend of suspensions for non-payment of dues and to
develop a plan for reclaiming members who have been su.spe~ded:
This problem was recognized by the Grand Master in his third recommendation which provides for the establishment of a ~ermanent delinquent dues committee in each Lodge to work clos~ly w1t.h .t he Master
to reduce the number of delinquent members. We believe this is the proper approach and that this problem can be best solved at the local Lodge
level.

To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. Masonry's support of the principle of free public education is a 52 week job every year ; and
WHEREAS, the function of the Committee on Public Schools is to
assist Lodges in this jurisdiction to promote the welfare of our Public
School Systems; and
WHEREAS. a careful study indicates that a committee of fifteen
members is inadequate to properly discharge its duties and responsibilities throughout the States of California and Hawaii;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that Section 192 of the MASONIC Code be amended to read "on Public Schools, to consist of
eighteen members."
HERBERT A. HUEBNER, P.M .• No. HS
NORBERT P. TESTER. P.M .. No. 384
GEORGE E. H1AIT, P.M., No. 247
ROLLAND F. ATWOOD, P .M., No. 12
RICHARD H . DuTWILER, P.M., No. 622
FRANKLIN C. POTTER, M ., No. 666
EDWIN N. STANSEL, P.M .• No. 421
PETER B. FLORIO, P.M ., No. 42
JOHN R. NocAs, M., No. 537
HOLLIS G. HARTLEY, P.M .. No. 348
CLYDE M. STINE. f .W .. No. 560
Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Public Schools.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes an amendment to Section 192 of the California Masonic Code to increase the number of members of the Committee on Public Schools from fifteen to eighteen. The resolution has
been presented by the Chairman and ten other members presently serving
on the Committee on Public Schools.

GRAN D LODGE OP C.A LI P OR NIA

256

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

It appears to be the consensus of opinion of the craft that the committee has done an outstanding service this year and if it is the opinion
of so large a majority of that committee. as appears to be the case from
their sponsorship of the resolution, that the addition of three more members will facilitate their work. it should be the policy of this body to give
them the added manpower.
I am authorized by the Chairman and members of the Committee on
Jurisprudence to advise you that committee is of the opinion that the
language of this proposed amendment, if adopted, will accomplish the
intended purpose.
1 move the adoption of the proposed amendment and the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes recommends a yes vote.
The Committee on Public Schools indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

LODGE FINANCIAL REPORTS (15)

DATES PRESENTED

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
RESOLUTION ON CHANGE OF SECTIONS 348. 350 AND

493 (2).
That the fiscal year of the Lodge and the Grand Lodge ends 30 June,
each year:
And that the officers are elected and usually installed during the
month of December, each year;
And that the Audits, should be made as of the close of business on
30 June and 31 December. each year;
Therefore: be it resolved. that sections 348, 350 and 493 ( 2), and
any other section, whereby the meaning shall be. The Secretary and
Treasurer shall, at the stated meetings in June and December of each
year. submit a report in full of the monetary transactions of the Lodge.
shall change the words June and December to read July and January.
HJALMAR F. RosENQUIST, M .. No. 799
E. F. SHEFFIELD. P.M., No. 696
F. S. F1RKINS, P.M .. No. 799
ROBERT S. W1LKINSON , P.M .. No. 696
THOMAS F. McALEER. P.M .. No. 799
BENTLEY W. BucK, P.M .. No. 632
WALLACE WRIGHT. S. W .. No. 799
EARL M . MooRE, M., No. 632
FRANK R. DAVIS, P.M .. No. 799
JoHN E. K1NNEL. PM., No. 632

257

R. W. ELLIOTT, P.M., No. 35
CoRAL L. OwENs, P.M .. No. 632
GORDON E. PLEDGER, M .. No. 35
LARRIE D. AYERS, P.M .• No. 632
Pur~:~:~~ed to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Polic
d G
on Resolution
No. 15 which y anld
ener~ l tur.poses reports herewith
( 2) of the C.M.C. t~ provid;'~~at thmen
ections _348. 350, and 493
and Secretaries of the constituent Lod e ~eport~ required of Treasurers
of July and January instead of in J ges e;Da eat the Stated Meetings
quired.
une an
ecember as presently rein short,
·
.
Lodges
to a mthis
·d- wouldd simply b nng.
t he accounting
periods of the
1 year an year-end basis.
The proposed change is in accord with
11
.
and accounting practices and in the . . ge~era y established business
Treasurers would materiaHy
. top~nion_o numerous Secretaries and
duties.
ass1s t em m the performance of their

wi~~~he r:~::~ie th~t t~e p~oposed

Assurance has been given b th G
dS
change would in no manner inte;fer:
We are authorized to state that in h
. .
epmg I~ his office.
Committee, the language of the resoluf t e.f p~1on dof t~e Jurisprudence
1
intended purpose.
IOn, a opte · will accomplish its
For the No
foregoing
.
Resolution
15 and reasons . your
d C omm1ttee
moves the adoption of
·
recommen s a yes vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence :
The Committee on J urisprude
h. h C
Resolution No. 15. proposes th f nlcle, t~ "". ic
ommittee was referred
0
THEREFORE
e
owmg .
493 (2) which
. _BEhITSRESOLVED that Sections 348, 350 and
require t e ecretary and T
complete reports of all monetary transactionrea;~~er
Lotodsub~it full and
0
December be amend d b
.k.
s
e
gem June and
"D
b ..
e
y stn mg therefrom the words " J
..
d
ece.u:i elr and inserting in their place the words "July" and '~Jne an ..
respective y.
anuary
We move the adoption of the resolution
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
·

258

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

259

LODG E CONS OLIDA TION -CLA RIFY PROC EDUR E
(16)

e GdrLoandd Master during the interval s between commun icat 1ons oforhbyGth
t e ran
ge.

To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOL VED. that Section 375 of the Californ ia Masoni c
Code be amende d to read as follows:
Sec. 375. Two or more Lodges, located near each other, may consolidate into one upon such terms as may be agreed upon between the
Lodges . There shall first be adopted by each Lodge at a Stated Meeting
a Resolut ion to the effect that a consolid ation is expedie nt, and that Committees be appoint ed to meet and arrange terms. Notice in writing of
the adoptio n of such Resolut ion shall be given to all member s of the
Lodge forthwi th. Such Commi ttees must agree upon the terms and report in writing to their respecti ve Lodges at a stated meeting, and the
reports must be received and concurr ed in by the respective Lodges. The
signatu re of at least three-fo urths of the members of each Lodge shall be
obtaine d to a paper or papers substan tially in this form: "In pursuan ce
of certain action of.. .......... Lodge No ........... .. and ................ Lodge No.
........... tending to the consolid ation of said Lodges into one Lodge, under
the name and number of ............ Lodge No ............ . ,we, the undersi gned.
member s of ............ Lodge No .......... do hereby express our assent to
and our desire for such propose d consolid ation." (Standa rd Forms to be
used will be made availab le by the Grand Secreta ry's office.)
At a stated meeting not earlier than the third stated meeting after
adoptio n of the first Resolut ion, the Master of each Lodge shall canvass
the consent s of members of his Lodge. and if he finds the required number of consent s have been properl y signed, he shall decla re the consolid ation to be approve d by said Lodge. When all proceed ings are complet ed,
they shall be entered upon the records of the existing Lodges. The written consent s and a certificate of proceed ings and action taken by the
Lodges must then be certified to the Grand Secreta ry by the respecti ve
Secreta ries under the seals of their respecti ve Lodges. If the Grand Master shall find it impract icable for a Lodge to secure the requisit e written
consent s, he may approve the consolid ation upon the written consent of
not less than a majority of the member s of each Lodge.
The Lodge thus formed may bear the name and number of one of the
Lodges compos ing it. in which case it may retain the Charter and Seal
of that Lodge; or it may bear the name of one and the number of another
of such Lodges and shall then receive a new Charter without charge.
and provide a new Seal; or it may have an endorse ment of the authoriz ation of such consolid ation by the Grand Lodge made upon the Charter
of one of the compon ent Lodges.
No such consolid ation shall go into effect until all the proceed ings
relative thereto shall have been submitt ed to and approve d by the Grand

Respect fully submitt ed,
ULYSSE S G . PATROP ULOS, P.M .• No. 260
W. F. POYNTE R. P.M.• No. 640
EuGENE S. HoPP, P .M., No. 260
Referre d to Commi ttees on Jurispru dence, and on Policy a d G
I
Purpose s.
n
enera

~odge

Th\Com mittee ?n Policy and General Purposes:
our Commi
· ttee
N on Policy and General Purpose s · to wh·1ch was referre d R eso Iut1on o. 16, reports as follows:
375T~is{esct~on merely clarifies the procedu re now outlined in Section
h -~ t .e · .C. for the consolid ation of constitu ent Lodges It is in
t e 1 enti_cal _form of Resolut ion No. 9, as it was present ed at ~ur 1963
~o~~~n~atr~n ?Y the same three authors . The resoluti on was adopted
. . • ut m its adopted form the languag e was changed from the
ongmal .
. D_u.ring t~; ensuing three years experie nce has demons trated the advisa~il1ty of _spelling ~ut" the several necessa ry procedu
ral steps more
precisely. This resoluti on does just that : Three months notice of the
p~opos~d merger to each member of each Lodge involve d
is still required ·
t _e wntt~n consent s of. three-fo urths of the member s of each Lodge ar;
~till req~1red; the pro_v1so is retained that if the Grand
Master finds it
1mpracticable to obtam tha t requisit e number of consent s he ma
prove the consolid ation upon the written consent s of a maj~rity of ~h~~~
~embers. T~e ortly substan tive change from the present
code section is
m the first lme - the ~rovision that the Lodges involve d are to be "located near each other, and this provision is in our opinion advisab le.
1:he Grand Secreta ry states that this resoluti on is a desirabl e clarifica
hon.

We.
therefor e.T move
d
C the adoptio n of Resolut ion No · 16 a nd recom~
n:ien . a. yes vote. he. ommittee on Jurisprudence states that the resolution is m the proper legal form.
Adopte d 5/6 vote.

ELIGl BIUTY -

FUNE RAL SERVI CE
(17)

To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
~HEREAS. a candida te is called Brother and is so designa
ted upo
rece1vmg his initiation into Masonr y, andn
f ~HEREA~. in the funeral ritual there is no mention as to the degree
o(wh·a~onrywh1ch the decease d Brother has reached , except in
the scroll
_1c can be made to designa te the degree of Masonr y which h h '
attamed ) ,
e as

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

260

REFORE let it be resolved that that sentence o!. section nuhmTHE
.
M
. C d
h"ch reads nor are t ey
asomc o e wh1
d t
d
be r 442 of the California
. M
. h
" be c ange o rea . "but may
entitled to burial with . asomc honors, . ·on of the Master or. in his
be buried with Masonic honors y perm1ss1
absence, a Warden."

HARRY WARNER, P.M .• No. 623
CARL C. RossoN, P.M .. No. 623
BEN REGAL, P.M.. No. 623
}ACK o. DAVIS, P.M.. No. 623
CLARENCE W APNER. P.M .. No. 623
ARTHUR ZEAVIN, P.M .. No. 6 23
LEONARD PENNER, P.M .. No. 623
Juuus SOLOMON, M .. No. 623
MORRIS FREEDMAN, S. W .. No. 6 23
SAMUEL CHADNow. J.W .. No. 6 23
NoRMAN B. FRANKFORT, P.M .. No. 623
on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Referred to Committees

Purposes, and on Ritual.
The Committee on Policy and General Purlp~ses:
t which was rey our Committee on Policy and Genera urposes, o
£erred Resolution No. 17, reports as foll~ws: t f Section 442 of the
This resolution proposes an amen men o
.
d FellowC .M.C .. which deals with the rights of Entered Apprentice an
craft Mars:~·tl written the section states, among other things. that such

Ent~r~~ Appre~tices

Fellowcra~t~ "~~~ ~dr;~u~:: ::e~~~;~~t~t¥:~

and
and are not entitled to vote or spe~. m Th ro ~sed resolution would
to burial with Masonic honords ;,b· ·~ etc. be ~:rie~ with Masonic honors
change the last clause to rea
u may
W d ..
h M
· h·s absence a
ar en.
by ~e:::sgio:v~ ~h: ob:~~:s o~j~~ul~ies practi~ally ~od be1
· overcomteo1u·~
M
. b . 1 where no gm e mes are se
making decisions as to asomw ur~a sld va ry completely from that
the decision of one M aster or
afr ~n cound widespread discrimination.
o f ano ther. th us causing. utter. conf us1on
h
.a . n that just as speaking and
In addition your Committee is o t e opm10
M
b Ancient
voting in the_ Lodge _arhe righMts rest~ict~dr~~l ~~::;c ri:~~n=n/ privilege
Custom. so is the ng t to
asomc u

rese.y::r t~~::~~~::fsn:h:l~~~i·s long established custom o~ restricting

Masonic burials to Master Masons. alon~ ~hou~dt~~p~e~e~7e a~d recomWe. therefore. move the adoption o
eso u to
.
mend a no vote.
d
d th · on
The Committees on Jurisprudence and on Ritual in icate
e1r c currence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

261

QUALIFICATIONS - LODGE OFFICERS
(18)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, proficiency in the candidates lecture before an Entered
Apprentice can be passed or a Fellowcraft can be raised is required; and
WHEREAS, the members of the several constituent Lodges look to
their officers to be proficient in the ritual and assist in the learning of the
candidate's lectures of the severa l degrees; and
WHEREAS. the members appointed and elected to serve in each of
the several offices in the constituent Lodges of this jurisdiction should
on their installation to such office be proficient in the ritual of the several
degrees required by such office;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the appropriate
sections of the California Masonic Code be amended so as to provide,
"Before any member of a constituent Lodge of this jurisdiction shall be
appointed or elected to any office other than Treasurer. Secretary, Organist or Tyler in such Lodge he shall by examination in open Lodge
show his proficiency in the Candidate's Lecture of the Third Degree."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that this resolution shall become
effective at the election or appointment of officers next following the Annual Communication at which such resolution shall be passed,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that this resolution shall not pertain to any officer elected or appointed before this resolution is passed.
Jurns J. DEMooR. M .. No. 633
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Ritual.
The Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual, to which has been presented Resolution
No. 18, reports as fellows :
Resolution No. 18 proposes that "before any member of a constituent
Lodge of this jurisdiction shall be appointed or elected to any office other
than Treasurer, Secretary. Organist, or Tiler in such Lodge, he shall by
examination in open Lodge show his proficiency in the Candidate's Lecture of the Third Degree."
The proficiency of our newly raised brethren in the lecture of the
Third Degree has concerned this Grand Lodge for many years. Resolutions have been introduced from time is time to require proficiency, but
have been defeated as either impractical or unenforceable. The one exception is the provision embodied in Question 15 of our Application for
Degrees form. which requires proficiency in the Candidate's Lecture of
the Degree of Master Mason before applying for membership in any
Lodge. order. or organization, the prerequisite of membership wherein
is that a person be a Master Mason.
The Ritual Committee has for many years been concerned with the

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

instruction of the Candid ate, not only in the required Lecture proficiencies, but also in the whole area of Masoni c instructio~ and. educatio n of
the Candid ate, while under the tutelage of the Candid ates coach. We
feel that the implem entation of the progres s through the us.e of the
H andboo k for C andidat es Coache s at the local Lodge level will go far
toward achievin g the objectiv es of this Resolut ion.
W e are opposed to the Resolut ion as present ed for several reasons .
Our principa l objectio n is based on the effect the provisio n of this
Resolution would have upon the small Lodges, particul arly those in the
rural, mounta inous, and remote areas of the jurisdic tion, where in some
instance s the local residen ts of the Lodge member ship are barely sufficient in numbers to fill the Lodge offices each year. The proficiency requirement would preclud e the filling of the offices in many instance s.
Second ly, there is a trend to confine the progres sive line of offices to
the Junior and Senior Deacon s, Junior and Senior Warde ns. and Master,
with other offices being filled on an underst ood one year basis. This resolution would require that the latter, the Junior and Senior Ste~a~ds,
Marsha l, and Chaplai n, even though serving only one year at the mv1tation of the Master, would be required to have passed a proficie ncy examinati on in the Candid ate's Lecture of the Third Degree in order to
assist and serve during the year.
Finally, we feel that even though the intent of the Resolution has
merit, from a practica l standpo int the officer who progres ses thr~ugh the
various proficiencies required for advance ment t~rough the Se.mar ~ea­
s
con's chair, and the Junior and Senior Warden s and M aster s statl~n
hensive
compre
and
ing
demand
more
much
to
d
subjecte
been
have
will
proficie ncies than that contemp lated in this Resolut ion.
In conclusion, while we do not have exact statistic al informa tion
availabl e, our samplin g of the practice s through out the jurisdic tion indicates that the intent of the Resolution would affect very few of the
Senior officers and M asters of our Lodges, because the ma jority have
passed their Third Degree proficiency before progres sing to the higher
offices.
We move the adoptio n of the Resol ution, but recomm end a "No"
vote.

Code be amende d by substitu ting a semi-colon for the period at the end
of the Section and adding "provid ed, however, that before any member
shaU be appoint ed or elected to any office other than Treasur er, Secretary. Organis t or Tyler_ in t~e Lodge, he shall in open Lodge show his
proficiency in the Can~1date s Lecture ~f the T hird Degree ."
We move the adoptio n of the foregoing resoluti on but urge a no vote.
The Commit tee on Policy and Genera l Purposes indicate d its concurrence in the recomm endation s.
A simple majority voted for the resoluti on. Failing a 5/ 6 vote, the
matter was held over until the 1967 Annual Commu nication as a "Proposed Amendm ent to the Ordinan ces." (Sec. 783 C.M.C. )

262

The Commit tee on Jurispru dence:
Your Commit tee on Jurispru dence reports on Resolut ion 18 as follows:
lt appears to us tha t the propose d resolution should, . if adopted , _he
an amendm ent to Section 473 of the Californ ia M asonic Code which
deals with the qualifications of officers. We therefo re submit the following resolution.
BE IT RESOL VED, that Section 473 of the Califor nia Masoni c

263

QUAL IFICA TIONS -OFFI CERS OR COUN SELOR S
OF YOUT H GROU PS
(19)
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHER EAS, the concord ant youth organiz ations; Order of DeMolay, Order of Rainbow for Girls and Order of Job's Daught ers, are a
vital adjunct and associat ed in the public image with Freema sonry, and
WHER EAS, said organiz ations contain member s who are not necessarily of Masonic parenta ge, and
~HE~EAS, there is little or no control by Grand Lodge over the
adm1mstrabon of these youth organiz ations, and
WHER EAS, many of our brethren who serve as officers and counselors ?f these o~gar:izatio.ns are not in close contact nor in frequen t
Masoni c commumcat1on with their brethren , and often are not familia r
with Masoni c Law and Custom , and
WHER EAS. on occasion, in their zealous efforts to serve, our brethren have inadver tantly ca used embarra ssment to the craft and present ed
an unfavor able public image, and
. .WHER EAS, it is desirabl e that organizations associa ted in the public unage with Freema sonry and who are purport edly Masoni c in character should be under the general supervis ion of Grand Lodge, and
WHE.R EAS, Grand Lodge now has inadequ ate power to influence
the selection of. properl y qualified and informe d adult sponsor s and
counselors of said youth organiz ations;
EFORE BE IT RESOL VED that Section ........ be added to
C ·MTCHER
· . as follows :
h N~ Mason shall hold office in any capacity in any youth organiz ation
except tha t he
\V erein the prerequ isite is that he be a Master Mason,
of the Lodge
Master
pful
Worshi
the
~I hav~ p~es~nt:d himself before
and have
lies,
ation
organiz
the
of
place
~=t J~risd1ct1on_ the meeting
and
C.M.C.
the
in
ncy
proficie
his
to
as
Master
pful
Worshi
said

GIV'\ ND LOUGE OF CJ\ LI PORN I.I\

l64

265

PROCEEOI NGS Ot' TIJ E

in our a.ncient usages and customs, to the extent that his incumbenc y in
such position shall bring no discredit or embarrass ment to the craft.
No Mason, holding such an office, shall continue to hold such office
except at the pleasure of said Worshipf ul Master.
In the event of concurren t jurisdictio n, the Inspector ( s) of the District ( s) involved shall rule which Master shall have jurisdiction.
Respectfu lly submitted .
HOWARD S. FISHER, P.M., No. 620
LUTHER STEVER, M., No. 660
JoHN G. SHEPARD, S. W., No. 660
ANDREW P. RIGGS, J.W .. No. 660
CECIL C. CocKRELL , M .. No. 334
W . DALE BuRKEIT. S .W .. No. 334
JoHN F. STEIGER, J.W .. No. 334
JACK W. RoBERTS, M .. No. 446
CHARLES H. ULCH, S. W., No. 446
FRED M. SWANBERG , f.W .. No. 446
ELMO R. CooVERT, P.M .. No. 446
JoHN L. HAWKEN, S.W .. No. 758
DONALD D. HoLM, J.W., No. 758
J. L. FoRKEY. P.M .. No. 758
M. F. Ross. P .M .. No. 660
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce. and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The Committe e on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred Resolution No. 19, reports as follows:
Resolution No. 19 proposes that : "No Mason shall hold office in any
capacity in any ,y outh organizati on wherein the prerequisi te is that he
be a M aster Mason, except that he shall have presented himself before
the Worshipf ul Master of the Lodge in whose jurisdictio n the meeting
place of the organizati on lies, and have satisfied said Worshipf ul Master
as to his proficiency in the C .M .C. and in our ancient usages and customs. to the extent that his incumbenc y in such position shall bring no
discredit or embarrass ment to the Craft." "No Mason, holding such
an office shall continue to hold such office except at the pleasure of said
Worshipf ul Master."
In the event of concurren t jurisdiction, the Inspector( s) of the District ( s) involved shall rule which M aster shall have jurisdictio n."
A reading of this language of the "Resolved " clause leads to two
observatio ns:
First, the proposal would subject any Master Mason who has volunteered his services for the promotion of youth groups, the existence and
encourage ment of which have long been the policy of this Grand Lodge,

to a~. u~limited inquisition by the Master of a Lodge. No standards of
fam1hanty with the complexit ies of the C.M.C. or the history, nature
and pur~oses. of ancient Masonic usages and customs is provided. Absolute discretion as to the degree of technical Masonic law, decisions
and usages required is left to the examining Master. What he required
of one examiner could vary completely from what he required from anot~e~. 1:he result could well be utter confusion and widesprea d discr1mmation.
The second obvious observatio n is that even if any Master Mason
could c~nceivably pass the unrestricte d examinati on permitted, he would
at all times the~eafter be permitted to continue his youth work only so
long as the whim of the Master let him do so. In short, the M aster is
made an absolute czar whose control of the youth organizati on would
thereby be establishe d for all time.
This Grand Lodge has never sought any such absolute control of
the youth organizati ons which it fosters. It should not begin now.
For these reasons your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes
moves the adoption of Resolution No. 19, but strongly urges a no vote.
The. Committe e on Jurisprudence indicated its concurren ce in the recommendation .
A majority voted against the resolution.

HEARIN G AIDS
(20)
To the Most Wc;rshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, many worthy and well qualified men who have been
disabled in wa~s in the defense of our country, and other similarly worthy
and well qualified men who through misfortun e have suffered partial
loss of ~ea~ing which necessitat es the use of a hearing aid, are denied
an applicatio n for the degrees in Masonry, and,
WH.ERE AS, since we no longer work in operative Masonry, but
speculativ e only, this restriction is now obsolete, and,
WHEREA S, numerous Masonic jurisdictio ns around the world
with whom we a.re in Fraternal accord, have eliminated this restrictio~
without detriment to the Craft, and without incurring the displeasure of
the rest of the Masonic fraternity, and,
~HEREAS. it is now one of our basic and universally accepted
t~achmgs and precepts that the internal and not the external qualifications recommen d a man to be made a Mason, and,
~HERE~S. Sections 511 and 512 of the C.M.C. regulation s, " •. .
hav1~g no marm or defect in his body that may render him incapable of
learning the art, and physically able to conform substantia lly to what
the several degrees respective ly require of him . . . . " would be con-

266

267

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

formed to if the candidate wore a modern, improved hearing aid while
ta king the degrees in Masonry,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED. that all references, rules and
regulations pertaining to restriction of Masonic candidates because of
hearing aids be rescinded.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE A. JuRGENS , P .M ., No. 491

moved by an express provision of our statutory law. We have requested
the Committee on Jurisprudence to prepare the legislation to carry out
this new policy. The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that you vote yes on the legislation which will now be p resented
to you.
T he Committee on fu risprndence:
In order to carry out the intent of Resolution No. 20, the Jurisprudence Committee offers the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED that Section 511 of the California Masonic
C ode be amended by adding to the end of said Section the following:
Provided, however, that an applicant for the degrees of Masonry
shall be allowed to use a modern hearing aid while taking said degrees, where same is needed and required.
W e move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
A simple majority voted for the resolution. F ailing a 5/ 6 vote, the
matter was held over until the 1967 Annual Communication as a " Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances." ( Sec. 783 C.M .C.)

Referred to Committees on Ju risprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution number 20 proposes to change our present law in the particular under which an applicant for the degrees who must rely upon a
hea ring aid is not qualified.
This disqualification was declared by the Grand Master in 1949 and
his decision was approved by the Grand Lodge.
It may be asserted that during the ensuing seventeen years the art of
miniaturizing of instruments , accelerated by the building of rockets. has
resulted in the development of some hearing aids which, batteries and
all. can be lodged in the ear canal and thus are, or are almost, undiscernable from the exterior, this factor alone is not conclusive that a change
should be made.
Your committee on Policy and General Purposes does recommend
that you change our law in this particular and prefers to base its conclusion upon not only the advances in the art o f manufacture of hearing
aids but upon the broader ground of internal qualifications weighed
against purely physical a ttributes. Your committee feels that issues as
to physical qualification must each be decided upon the particular impa irment involved. It has long been our law that there are some amputations and losses which do not disqualify an applicant and we deem that
the wearing of a modern hearing aid should now be moved over into
that classification.
We find grea t difficulty in discerning any substantial difference between an applicant who mus t wear a hearing aid and one who must rely
upon s trong corrective glasses. The fact that the latter may remove his
glasses affords no basis for a distinction.
We have taken into consideration the probability that one who wears
a hearing aid would not be embarrassed upon finding himself in the center
of a group, whereas. one who must wear an artificial limb and not knowing what would be required of him, suddenly finds himself in the center
of a group most of w hom are strangers .
We are authorized to state tha t the Committee on Ritual feels that
the questions involved are matters of policy and not of ritual. hence they
will give no separate report.
We believe that the disqualification presently existing should be re-

OPTIONAL RESIDENCE OR BUSINESS LOCATION
OF APPLICANTS
(21)
To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, many potential candidates for the degrees of Masonry
tra vel long distances between their places of residence and their places of
business, and
WH E REA'.S, the length of time required to travel such distances precludes the possibility of their appearance at a local Lodge at the required
time, and
WHEREAS, this condition has resulted in their failure to petition a
Lodge in their home communities, and
WHEREAS, many of their business associates a re members of
Lodges near their places of business, and
WHEREAS, these potential candidates would be more inclined to
join their business associates in M asonic activities,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 522,
C.M.C. be amended to read as follows :
Section 522. Residence or Business location within ten miles of Lodge
room. Anything in these Ordinances to the contrary notwithstanding ,
without any waiver of any sort being sought or obtained, an a pplication
for the degrees of Masonry may be presented by any person otherwise
qualified to receive the degrees, if such person shall reside, or have his
business location, within ten miles of the Lodge room of the Lodge to
which such application is addressed. If s uch applicant s hall reside, or
have his business location, in territory within the concurrent jurisdiction

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of two or more Lodges, pursuant to the terms of this section or otherwise. then the procedure to be followed in acting upon such application
shall be that prescribed in cases of concurrent jurisdiction. (Former R.D.
Sec.218)
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 517, 518 and 524.
C. M.C. be amended to include "Business location" in conformity with
the amended Section 522.
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD W. LIEBSCHER. P.M., No. 614
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

GIFT BIBLE-MINIMUM SIZE
(22)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. from time to time a Gift Bible is presented to a Candidate upon his raising; and
WHEREAS, a Brother coaching a Candidate thru the three degrees
wishes to have his Candidate obligated upon the Gift Bible; and
WHEREAS, it is the policy of the Ritual Committee that a Candidate may be obligated on a Gift Bible. if large enough; now therefore.
BE IT RESOLVED, the (edited in accordance with later adopted

motion to expunge from the record those portions touching on the esoteric
work) Gift Bible permitted by C.M.C. 554 shall meet certain requirements a:;; specified in the resolution as submitted.
Respectfully submitted by the following Officers and Past Masters
of Point Firmin Lodge No. 558,
IRA c. BERNS, P.M.
EDWARD B. PHILLIPS, M .
JoHN R. WYCKOFF, P.M.
CHARLES R. LEw1s, S. W.
WALTER w. FOSTER, P.M.
JOHN PATRICK MORGAN, J.W.
CHARLES KNIBB, P.M.
J. EAR L DUNCAN, P.M.
H ENRY A. NEWCOMER, P.M.
w. CURTIS LAMPSHIRE, P.M.
WASSON L. DOUGHTY, P.M.
PERCY H. KING, P.M.
LEo C. FINN, P.M.
Lams C. SCHWARZ, P.M.
H. OTTO NIELSEN , P.M.
NELSON E. NOELL, P.M.
TED SLUDER, P.M.
WALTER H . SAWYER, P.M.
J A MES J. NASH, P.M.
EARL J. HULL, P.M.
JOHN D. H O LLAND, P.M.
HUBERT L. KALTENBACH, P.M.
J . A. EICHHORN, P.M.
LEWIS A. S A MSON. P .M.
TERENCE P. CARNEY, P.M.
L. c. STEPHENSON, P.M.
CLYDE M. THOMAS. JR •• P.M.
RUDOLF A. LUDWIG. P.M.
BRUCE L. W1LsoN . P.M.
JoHN P. TarPPS, P.M.
Ref erred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

269

The Committee on Ritual:
Resolution No. 22 proposes that the Grand Lodge designate the
minimum requirements for a Bible being substituted in place of the regular Lodge Bible.
The Resolution contains three Whereas-es. followed by the Resolve
portion, and we propose to discuss them in order.
The first Whereas sta tes that from time to time a Gift Bible is presented to a Candidate upon his raising, and we agree that this practice
has been followed on occasions in some Lodges. However, in order to
put this is proper focus, it should be pointed out that it is not a general
practice, and we are persuaded that a canvass of our constituent Lodges
would reveal that such presentations are made at relatively few of our
candidates' degrees. It follows, then, that this Resolution is framed and
presented for the benefit of a relatively few of our Lodges and candidates.
The second Whereas spells out the reason for the Resolution being
presented: "A Brother coaching a Candidate thru the three degrees
wishes to have his candidate obligated upon the Gift Bible." We submit
that a Resolution based on what would appear to be a convenience to
satisfy the vanity of the Coaching brother, or any other Brother, is insufficient reason to warrant considera tion.
The third Whereas states that "It is the policy of the Ritual Committee that a Candidate may be obligated on a Gift Bible. if large
enough." We agree that this has been the attitude and requirement of
the Ritua l Committee, as custodian of the esoteric work of our Grand
Lodge, and in thi~ instance the emphasis must be placed on the concluding phrase, "if large enough." Grand Lecturers through the years have
ruled that a Gift Bible, if it is used to obligate the candidate, must be of
such size that it can conform to the requirements of our ritual. A small
sized Bible obviously cannot do so.
The Resolution proposes a specification for a Bible to qualif,y as
''large enough." We contend that a Bible of this specification does not
conform to the requirements of the Ritual.
(Note: The report outlined in detail the reasons why this specified
Bible did not conform to the requirements of our Ritual).
In order to present the Resolution for consideration, we move its
adoption, but strongly urge a "No" vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes does not consider
that a change in policy is involved, it being a purely ritualistic ma tter.
A majority voted against the resolution.
(NOTE: By separate action of Grand Lodge authorization was granted
to expunge from the records, minutes and proceedings esoteric language relating to Resolution No. 22.)

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

VISUAL AIDS
(23)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. cS A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, many Grand Lodge jurisdictions permit the use of
slides in the Master's lectures of the three Degrees. and
WHEREAS, there is an opportunity for members not engaged in
ritualistic work to enjoy the lectures more thoroughly, and thereby assist
in increasing Lodge attendance, and
WHEREAS, many commercial corporations and businesses use
audio-visual aids to a tremendous advantage, thereby employing the sage
reflection that "a picture is worth a thousand words," and
WHEREAS, there are Masonic supply business houses that stock
projectors, screens, and slides that are not prohibitive in cost. now
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED. that the Grand Lodge of California consider the use of slides to assist in the Master's lectures of the
three Degrees, and that the Grand Lodge Committee on Ritual present
an exhaustive and impartial study and present a report and its recommendation to the one hundred and eighteenth annual communication.
Respectfully submitted,
RODNEY E. WINCENTSEN, f. W., No. 431
OLIVER I. KITCHEN, P.M., No. 431
JoHN L. VAN WINKLE, P.M., No. 431
LLOYD N. MASON, P.M., No. 431
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

The. Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual, to which has been presented Resolution
No. 23, reports as follows :
Resolution No. 23 proposes that "The Grand Lodge of California
consider the use of slides to assist in the Master's Lectures of the three
degrees, and that the Grand Lodge Committee on Ritual present an exhaustive and impartial study and present a report and its recommendation to the One Hundred and Eighteenth Annual Communication.
We call your attention that a similar resolution was presented at the
1957 communication, and, with an amendment to substitute a Special
Committee in place of the Ritual Committee, the Resolution was adopted.
At the 1958 Communication this Special Committee rendered its report and recommended that no change should be made in the established
ritual or in the method of its performance by the addition of so-called
visual aids. One member of the Special Committee presented a minority
report, and recommended that a new committee be appointed to reconsider and further evaluate the use of visual aids in our ritual, and report
its findings and recommendations at the 1959 communication. This recommendation was adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

The new Special Committee on Visual Aids, composed of brethren
not at that time serving on any other Committee, made a thorough and
exhaustive study of the subject, and practices in other jurisdictions. The
report of this Committee may be read in its entirety at pages 210 to 216
inclusive of the 1959 Proceedings. The conclusion reached is summed
up in the opening sentence under "Recommendations" in their report:
"This committee sees no reason for change in the presentation and lectures of the three degrees as now constituted." The report in its entirety
was adopted at the 1959 Communication.
With this history on the subject matter of the Resolution presented,
we do not feel that a further study is justified.
We recommend a no vote on the Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

MOYABLE JEWELS
(24)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. cS A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. there appears to be practical use of Movable Jewels
in the monitorial section of the First Degree lecture, namely the Rough
Ashlar, the Perfect Ashlar and the Trestle Board; and by reference in
the Third Degree for the Trestle Board, and
WHEREAS, a great many of the Lodges possess the physical Ashlars and Trestle Board. now
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the restriction now imposed be lifted, and those Lodges which prefer, may use the physical
Rough Ashlar, the Perfect Ashlar, and the Trestle Board, and placed in
their former place in the East.
Respectfully submitted,
RODNEY E. WICENTSEN, /. W., No. 431
OuvER I. KITCHEN, P.M., No. 431
JoHN L. VAN WINKLE, P.M., No. 431
LLOYD N. MASON, P.M., No. 431
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.
The. Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual. to which has been presented Resolution No.
24, reports as follows:
Resolution No. 24 proposes that "The restriction now imposed be
lifted, and those Lodges which prefer, may use the physical Rough Ashier, the Perfect Ashlar, and the Trestle Beard, and placed in their former
place in the East."
The Resolution, and what it purports to do, is totally unnecessary

272

PROCEEDINGS OJ.' THE

because there is no restriction at the present time on the Movable Jewels
being in the East.
At the One Hundred Eighth Annual Communication in 1957, reporting on a Resolution perta ining to a monitorial emblem, the following report was made: "There is nothing whatever to prevent any Lodge from
having physically represented in its lodgeroom any monitorial emblem.
What the Grand Lecturer has taught is that the emblem cannot be used
as a part of the ritual by pointing or calling particular attention to the
emblem. The work as taught in this jurisdiction does not include such
use of it." The report continues to point out that the work is communicated only by the instructive tongue to the attentive ear, and any other
method is positively forbidden, as set forth in the portions of the 1908
proceedings having to do with the subject.
Further, at the 1958 Communication, the then Grand Lecturer, Very
Worshipful Elbert W. Davis reported: " .... it will be permissible for
officers to call attention to any of the monitorial emblems by appropriate
gestures (but without diverting attention of the candidate from the lecture). This position was implemented by a directive from the Grand
Lecturer to the Inspectors of the Jurisdiction under date of October 6,
1958.
The Resolution is unnecessary, so far as the presence of the Movable
Jewels is concerned, and we therefore recommend that it be not adopted.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

THIRD DEGREE-OPTIONAL PROVISION
(25)
NOTE: The Committee on Ritual stated that this Resolution referred
to an esoteric part of the ritual of this Grand Lodge, therefore by more
than a majority vote, after consideration and vote on the Resolution, the
contents of the Resolution and the portions of the Report of the Committee on Ritual having to do with our esoteric work were authorized to
be expunged from the record, minutes. and Proceedings.
The Resolution was submitted in regular form by
RODNEY E. W1NCENTSEN, ]. W. No. 431
JoHN L. VAN WINKLE, P.M. No. 431
OLIVER I. KITCHEN, P.M., No. 43 1
LLOYD N. MASON, P.M .. No. 431
The original Resolution was referred to Committees on Policy and
General Purposes, and on Ritual.

The Committee on Ritual:
There is an element of this Resolution to which we mus t, as custodians of the ritual and work, object to most emphatically. Uniformity and

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPORN !A

273

conformity to our ritual cannot be achieved if there are to be optional
deviations from the work as it was handed down from time immemorial.
Optional variances in our ritual would defeat our primary efforts toward
achieving uniformity and conformity in the ritual.
In order to properly present the Resolution for consideration, we
move the adoption of the Resolution, but we strongly urge a "No" vote.
The Committee on Policy and Genera/ Purposes did not consider
that any change in policy was involved.
A majority voted against the resolution.

NOTICE TO DELINQUENT MEMBER
(26)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section No. 579 C.M.C. requires the Secretary to
notify any member who bas refused or neglected to pay his regular dues
during a period of twelve months and,
WHEREAS, this section requires that the notice be sent either by
certified or registered letter to the last known address and deliverable to
addressee on/ y and
WHEREAS, in the majority of cases the member is not at home a nd
the letter cannot be delivered, thus resulting in it finally being returned
to the sender, now therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED. that Section No. 579 C.M.C. be amended by
striking out the words "deliverable to addressee only" in line four ( 4)
which follows that part of sentence reading "registered letter or certified
mail." This line will then appear as follows, "registered letter or certified
mail deposited in the U.S . Post Office addressed to him at his last known
address."
Respectfully submitted,
RAYL. WHITNEY, P.M., No. 513
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This Resolution provides that notice of dues delinquency may be
mailed by registered or certified mail, as presently required, but that Section 579 C .M.C. be so amended that the further requirement of "deliverable to add ressee only" be removed.
The purpose of this proposal is to increase the practical probability
that the registered or certified mail be received by the delinquent brother.
Extensive experience of Lodge secretaries has been that in a large num ber of cases under the present rule, where the notice is deliverable to the
addressee only, the delinquent member is at work when mail deliveries
are made at bis home. a nd the notice cannot be delivered. This results in

275

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

multiplying the burdens on the secretaries, who then make other efforts
to reach the brother, and involves a considerable added cash outlay for
the Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that the proposed Resolution is meritorious and will in fact further the
purpose of reaching delinquent brethren and giving opportunity to remedy their delinquency. The Committee believes, however, that delinquency
notices should be sent with return receipts requested, in order that proof
of delivery to the place addressed may be available to the secretary concerned.
Consequently, I move the amendment of Resolution No. 26 by the
insertion of the words "with return receipt requested" following the
words "registered letter or certified mail."
I now move the adoption of Resolution No. 26, as amended, and your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a yes vote
thereon.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted as amended 5/6 vote.

Memorial Service, without the body present, which Constituent Lodges
may use without interpretation when requested by the family of a deceased Brother for that type of Service.

274

OPTIONAL FUNERAL SERVICE-MEM ORIAL
(27)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
WHEREAS, the Funeral Service adopted by the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California provides the use of the present
funeral service by Constituent Lodges even though the body of the deceased brother is not present; and
WHEREAS, this requires a local interpretation of the present Funeral Service Ritual; and
WHEREAS, there is a definite trend toward family and/or private
funerals; and
WHEREAS, the Constituent Lodges have been approached to perform Memorial Services for eligible deceased Brothers , at the request of
their families; and
WHEREAS. it has been necessary for the Constituent Lodges to
interpret the present Funeral Service for use without the body present;
and
WHEREAS, the present Funeral Service does not provide guide~
lines and ritual for floorwork without the body present in the Memorial
Service;
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. F. & A. M. of California adopt a suitable Ritual
addition or change in the present Funeral Service Ritual to provide a

Respectfully submitted,
MAURICE L. HAMM , M., No. 691
LEWIS D. RADCLIFF, P.M .• No. 691
Roy V. BROWN,]. W .. No. 691

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes that this Grand Lodge "adopt a suitable
Ritual addition or change in the present Funeral Service Ritual to provide
a Memorial Service, without the body present. which Constituent Lodges
may use without interpretation when requested by the family of a deceased Brother for that type of Service."
It might be pointed out in passing that a change in ritual. if made,
would constitute another Masonic service appropriate for memorization.
However, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is concerned more basically with the belief that the proposed addition of another funeral service for memorial occasions is neither necessary nor
desirable.
The present beautiful service can readily be adapted in respect to
physical arrangements and floor work, as well as gestures and directives,
in order to proceed smoothly despite the absence of a body. It would appear to your Coµimittee that the objective of the resolution can readily
and efficiently be served through the issuance by the Ritual Committee
of a supplemental page of instructions to be applicable to memorial services. We are authorized by the Committee on Jurisprudence to state
that this resolution does not involve any legal question, therefore that
committee will not render any report.
Accordingly, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes moves
the adoption of Resolution No. 27 and recommends a no vote thereon.
The Committee on Ritual indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

PUBLICATIONS FORBIDDEN
(28)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOLVED that Section 769 Masonic Code of California
be amended to read as follows:
769, Publications forbidden. No suspension, expulsion or restoration
shall be published otherwise than is hereinbefore provided, except by

276

Pl<OCEEDINGS OP THE

authority of the Grand Lodge or by order of the Grand Master; provided
that when the Secretary or Master of the Lodge from which the member
was expelled or suspended has knowledge that said member is also a
member of an organization or organizations requiring Masonic affiliation
as a condition of membership. said Master or Secretary may, and should.
notify the presiding officer or Secretary of each such organization of the
fact of such expulsion or suspension.
Similar notice may and should be given of the restoration of a member who has been suspended for non-payment of dues, or who has been
suspended for unMasonic conduct by his Lodge. or the election to membership of a Mason who has been restored by Grand Lodge after expulsion or suspension by Grand Lodge, said suspension having been decreed by Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross , P.M., No. 25i
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
Resolution No. 28 seeks to add to Section 769 C.M.C. a provision
making it permissible for the Master or Secretary of a Lodge from which
a member has been suspended or expelled, having knowledge that said
member is also a member of an organization or organizations requiring
Masonic affiliation as a condition of membership, to notify (presumably
in writing) the presiding officer or Secretary of each such organization
of the fact of such expulsion or suspension. Provision is also made for
similar notice to be made upon restoration to members hip of such a member.
There have been instances when Masons suspended from their Lodge
for non-payment of dues have, either by ignorance or design, continued
their membership in a Masonic affiliated organization or organizations.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes this proposal is desirable and that use of such permissive procedure may help
materially in being certain that all Masons who are members of Masonic
affiliated organizations are also members in good standing of a Blue
Lodge. The Committee on Jurisprudence will present the necessary legis lation and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends
a yes vote.
The Committee on furisprudence:
This resolution by Albert F. Ross is insufficient in that it purports to
amend Section 769 of the Code relating to publication of Grand Lodge
action, but omits amendment of Section 363 relating to Lodge action. To
effectuate the intention of the author of the resolution, we offer the following resolution :

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

277

BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 363 of the California Masonic
Code be amended by adding thereto the following:
"Provided, however, that when the Secretary of the Lodge from
which a brother has been suspended or expelled has knowledge that
said brother is also a member of an organization the prerequisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, said Secretary may notify the presiding officer or Secretary of such organization
of the fact of such suspension or expulsion; and provided, furthe r,
that said Secretary should, on restoration of such member, notify the
presiding officer or Secretary of such other organization of such restoration."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 769 of the California
Masonic Code be amended by adding thereto the following :
"Provided, however, that when the Secretary of the Lodge from
which a brother has been suspended or expelled has knowledge that
said brother is also a member of an organization the prerequisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, said Secretary may notify the presiding officer or Secretary of such organization
of the fact of such suspension or expulsion; and provided, further,
that said Secretary should, on restoration of such member. notify the
presiding officer or Secretary of such other organization of such restoration."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 683i of the California Masonic Code be deleted from the Code.
We move the adoption and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted as amended 5/6 vote.
VOTE REQUIRED

(C.M.C. 782)
(29)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A . M. of California:
WHEREAS. all legislative, executive and judicial power of "The
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California" is extended to the voting members of Grand Lodge
as set forth in Section 16 of the California Masonic Code; and
WHEREAS, the transaction of business in Grand Lodge is upon
written resolution and the present voting requirements under Section 782
of the California Masonic Code requires a five-sixths or 83.YJ % vote to
approve any resolution resulting in one-sixth or l 6YJ % vote governing
the transaction of business, such voting percentages having made it difficult if not impossible to enact popular resolutions and to disapprove
unpopular decisions, resulting in Grand Lodge having little value as a
legislative body; and

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS. the Grand Lodge is based upon democratic principles
and its early leaders were largely responsible for the American system
of government wherein a majority or a % vote is required for passage
of legislation ; and
WHEREAS, it is believed that it is desirable tha t no greater voting
requirement be required of members of Grand Lodge than members of
Federal or State Government and that the Ordina nces of Grand Lodge
should be amended to make uniform such voting procedures in our Masonic Bodies;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Section 782 of the
California Masonic Code should be amended as follows: (Bold Face
delete. Underline add).
SECTION 782. Vote required. Upon report of said committee, if
five-sixths two-thirds of the votes shall be in favor of such proposed

tion or report or the reversal of a decision or the rescision of a resolution
only required a majority vote.
The Ross Digest, adopted in 1931 , consisted of a constitution and a
new division denominated " ordinances of the Grand Lodge." The digest
in section 27 required a five-sixths vote to amend the constitution and in
section 349 laid down the same rule as to amendment of the ordinance
sections. These were carried over into the present code as sections 76
and 782.
Whether there were valid reasons for enacting section 349 of the
Ross Digest in 1931, need not be debated now. Since 1931 a substantial
change has been made as to the presentation and circulation of proposed
amendments to the ordinances. In 1931 and until 1956, proposed amendments to the ordinances might be presented on the opening day of a communication. No prior information thereon to the cra ft was required.
Since 1956 the requirement that proposed a mendments be filed 90
days and copies be distributed to the craft 60 days before a communication is a far better safeguard against ill advised action than the difference
between a two-thirds and a five-sixths vote.
If 66% percentage of those present and voting at any Communication
desire an amendment to an existing ordinance, your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes can find no logical reason why the vote of 17%
should delay action for one year (after which year, under our existing
law, that same vote, 66% % yes, is sufficient to adopt the amendment).
A two to one favorable vote should be sufficient the first time.
We are authorized to state on behalf of the Committee on Jurisprudence, that the la~guage of the proposed amendment, if adopted, will
accomplish the intended purpose.
I move the adoption of resolution number 29 and the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommends a yes vote.
A simple majority voted for the resolution. Failing a 5/ 6 vote, the
matter was held over until the 1967 Annual Communication as a "Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances." (Sec. 783 C.M.C.)

amendment it shall be declared adopted ; and from and after the close
of tha t Communication it shall become part of these Ordinances.
HERBERT L. FONG, M., No. 571
THOMAS J. WHITTEN, M., No. 268
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General
Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution 29 proposes an amendment to section 782 of the California M asonic Code. If adopted, the present requirement of a five-sixths
affirmative vote to amend an ordinance would be reduced to a two-thirds
requirement. To state the matter in precentages, the present requirement
for an adoption on the first presentation of a proposed amendment is that
83 J1 % of the votes cast must be "yes." The resolution, if adopted, would
require that the affirmative vote be at least 66% % "yes."
It is important to bear in mind that the California Masonic Code as
the Ross Digest which preceded it, is composed of two parts, denominated " Constitution of the Grand Lodge of California" and "Ordinances
of the Grand Lodge of California." Resolution 29 does not propose any
change in the requirement of a five-sixths favorable vote in order to
amend the constitution; it would change the required vote only as to
proposed amendments to the ordinances.
From the founding of our Grand Lodge in 1850 until 1931. a span
of eighty-one years, the law of this jurisdiction consisted of ( 1} a constitution and ( 2) those decisions of G rand M asters which had been approved by the Grand Lodge and resolutions and reports which had been
adopted by the Grand Lodge. This latter category of course comprised
the larger portion of our law. The constitution, for the adoption of a
new section or the a mendment or repeal of an existing section, required
a five-sixth vote. The approval of a decision, the adoption of a resolu-

279

VOTE REQUIRED
( C.M.C. 783)
(30)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, all legislative, executive a nd judicial power of " The
Mos t Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free a nd Accepted Masons of the
State of California" is extended to the voting members of Grand Lodge
as set forth in Section 16 of the California Masonic Code; and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge is based upon democratic principles
and its early leaders were largely responsible for the American system
of government wherein a majority vote is required for passage of most
legislation: and

280

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

WHEREAS, it is believed that it is desirable that no greater voting
requirement be required of members of Grand Lodge than members of
Federal or State Government and that the Ordinances of Grand Lodge
should be amended to make uniform such voting procedures in our Masonic Bodies; and
WHEREAS, it is believed that if after the expiration of one year
and the opportunity for consideration of an amendment has been alforded
to members and a majority still favors the change then a majority vote
should prevail;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Section 783 of the
Calfiornia Masonic Code should be amended as follows: (Bold Face
delete, Underline add)
SECTION 783. When two-thirds majority vote may carry. If the
vote in favor of such proposed amendment be less than that named in
the preceding section, but there be a majority therefor, it shall lie over
for one year, and shall be published with the Proceedings, under the
caption of " Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances"; and if. at the next
succeeding Annual Communication, it shall receive two-thirds a majority
of the votes given thereon, it shall be declared adopted; and from and
after the close of that Communication, it shall become a part of the
Ordinances.
THOMAS J. WHITTEN, M., No. 268
HERBERT L. FoNG, M ., No. 571
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of Resolution Number 29 have also presented Resolution Number 30. By this Resolution, they propose to amend Section
783 by striking the words "two-thirds" and substituting the words "majority."
Section 782, which we have just discussed, precribes the vote required
to adopt a proposed amendment to the ordinances when it is first presented. Section 783 reads: "If the vote in favor of such proposed amendment
be less than that named in the preceding section, but there be a majority
therefor, it shall lie over for one year and shall be published with the
Proceedings, under the caption of 'Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances;' and if, at the next succeeding Annual Communication, it shall
receive two-thirds of the votes given thereon, it shall be declared adopted

..

In discussing the preceeding section it was noted that in 1931 when
Sections 782 and 783 were first enacted, there was no provision for advance notice or circularization of proposed amendments prior to the first
consideration thereof. You will note that the section we are. now consi<;lerin9 required the publication and circularizing of any amendment

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

which failed to receive a five-sixths favor~ble. vote, bu~ di.d r~ceive a
majority vote. Obviously, the fact of pubhc~t1on and d1str1but1on was
deemed a sufficient reason to lower the required favorable vote on the
second consideration to two-thirds of those cast.
In the opinion of your Committee on Policy and General P urposes
the mere fact that previously there was a difference between the required
vote on the first and second considerations does not tend to prove that
there should be now a lowering on the second consideration from twothirds to a majority. On the contrary we are persuaded that the required
vote on the second consideration should be the same beca use now the
conditions as to notice and distribution before each ·c onsideration are
substantially the same. It does not appear to us tha t the mere fact that
a proposed amendment lays over for a year because it received a majority vote. is any reason why it should be adopted upon a lesser vote at
the second consideration.
We do feel that Section 783 in its present form serves a useful and
proper purpose in that it keeps a proposed amendment "alive," so to
.
.
.
speak. and insures a second consideration.
We are authorized to state that the Committee on Jurisprudence 1s
of the opinion that the language of the proposed amendment is sufficient,
if adopted. to accomplish the purpose of its proponents.
I move the adoption of Resolution 30 and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

MASTER MASON'S EMBLEM
(31)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS this Grand Lodge has prescribed Jewels of Grand
Master, Past Grand Master and Past Master and also provided for Gold
Buttons for Veteran Master Masons, and
WHEREAS the Square and Compass with letter "G" is and has
been accepted as a Masonic or Master Mason emblem or jewel throughout the world by Masons and profane, including the Lodges and Members of this Jurisdiction. on buildings. signs. printing and jewelry. therefore
BE IT RESOLVED that the Square and Compass with letter "G"
in an upright position to the viewer be accepted and recognized as a
Masonic or Master emblem. or jewel, by this Grand Lodge and the Ritual
Committee be directed to design and prescribe the form thereof.
}AMES B. WHITEHEAD, P.M., No. 402
P ERCY E. PALMER, P.M., No. 402
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

282

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes. to whom Resolution No. 31 entitled Master Mason's Emblem has been referred, reports
as follows :
This resolution appears to attempt to establish in our ordinances the
fact that we accept and recognize the Square and Compass with the
letter "G" as a Masonic or Master Mason emblem or jewel.
As recorded in the Appendix of the C.M.C .. on April 4, 1956. Grand
Lodge received a judgment in the Superior Court of the City and County
of San Francisco. In its judgment the court found that the Grand Lodge
has been continuously. since organization in 1850, and is now, the owner
of and entitled to use the Masonic emblem consisting of the square and
compass.
In addition, your Committee feels that after 115 years of common acceptance of such an emblem by the Grand Lodge of California and the
public at large, that any further or more formal establishment of the
emblem is unnecessary.
The resolution also calls for a direction to the Ritual Committee to
" design and prescribe the form thereof." The only purpose your Committee can assign to this provision is that of possible standardizing the
emblem to the point of rendering obsolete the prevailing emblems on our
temples, jewels. stationery. etc. We fail to see what good this would
accomplish . The Committee on Jurisprudence authorizes us to state that
they find no legal problem to be involved in the resolution.
The Committee on Ritual concurs in this report.
I. therefore, move the adoption of the resolution but the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommends a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

DISPLAY NATIONAL EMBLEM
(32)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. The California Masonic Temple, located at the corner
of Mason a nd California Streets in the city of San Francisco, is a
Memorial Temple, and ,
WHEREAS. The Temple is visited each year by many thousands of
people representing all countries of the world who make their approach
to the Temple via California Street. now.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That the National Emblem.
when it is displayed, be displayed in such a manner that it will be in full

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

283

view of those approaching the Temple from either direction on California
Street.
R. D. GREGORY, M .. No. 693
STUART GARRIER, S . W ., No. 693
D . M. BINKERD, f. W., No. 693
CHARLES H. DAVIS, P.M., No. 693
ROBERT K. HAGER, P.M., No. 476
AARON H. WEINER, P.M .. No. 476
G . E. COVINGTON, P.M., No. 473
ARTHUR T. DUGGINS, S. W., No. 473
GUINN H. BRITTON, M., No. 476
PAUL GREEN, S. W ., No. 476
PAUL G. JENKINS, ]. W., No. 476
FRIEND F. WILSON, P.M., No. 476
F. B. Doz IER , P .M., No. 476
R. S. BERTRAND, P.M.. No. 693
N. J. STUART, JR., P.M., No. 693
H. L. REED, P.M., No. 473
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and
on
Finance.

The Committee on Finance:
There ~as been referred to your Committee on Finance Resolution
No. 3.2 which would provide that the National Emblem be displayed in
full view of those on California Street.
In the absenc.e of a reliable estimate of the cost of duplicating the
a?equate flag standards, which we now have, on the Taylor Street
side of . the Memorial Temple, your Committee on Finance has no
alternative than to recommend a no vote.
The C,ommittee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence m the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

HONOR MASONIC SIGNERS OF DECLARATION
OF INDEPENDENC E
(33)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS: Time has a way of flying past and the year 1976 will
b~ t~e year all Americans should celebrate the 200th Anniversary of the
s1gnmg of the Declaration of Independence, and
WHEREAS: Among the signers of that inspired document there
were several Master Masons,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, At their Stated Meeting of

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

J l 1 1966 Service Lodge No. 594. F. & A. M. of the Grand Jurisdict~~ of California recommends that the Grand Lodge of California take
the necessary steps to honor those distinguished brothers for the part
they played in gaining for us the freedom with which this nation has
been blessed.
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES J. HowE, P.M .. No. 594
}AMES B. GRAHAM. P.M .. No. 594
CHARLES J. WENTZ. P.M.• No. 594
E. CHARLES LAMBERSON. M .. No. 594
ANDREW C. JOHNSON, S. W .. No. 594
WILLIAM P. DENNY, J. W .. No. 594
RALPH F. RuTHERFORD, P.M .. No. 594
RALPH B. SAFFLE, P.M .. No. 594
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

MASONIC PUBLIC SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIPS
(34)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 AM. of California :
WHEREAS. the Masonic Fraternity has always cherished ~nd encouraged the public schools system in the United ?tales of America. and
has regarded it as the foundation of the country s ?reatn.ess; and
WHEREAS. the future conduct of this country s ~ffairs depends on
the abilities and knowledge acquired by the youth of this country through
their attendance at the public schools and the application thereof to such
affairs; and
WHEREAS. it is believed that this Grand Lodge should institute an
annual program of financial assistance, for the benefit of. sue~ students
of the public high schools throughout the State. of Cahforma a~ may
desire to participate therein, through the establishment of a series of
scholarships available to members of the graduating classes of the several
public high schools throughout the state. regardless of sex. race, color or
creed ; and
WHEREAS. it is further believed that the Grand Lo~ge Committee
on Public Schools. in conjunction with its activities regard.mg th~ an~ual
Public Schools Week. is the proper agency through which to institute
and operate such a program (with the assistance of the Grand Lectur~
and the several Assistant Grand Lecturers and District Inspectors 1f
said Committee should so determine). the cost of the prograi:n ~o ?e
financed by the annual payment by each active Lodge under the iunsd1ction of this Grand Lodge of the sum of Fifteen ( $15.00) Dollars between January ] and February 15 of each year, beginning with 1967,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

285

such payments to be segregated in a separate fund to be known as the
Public Schools Scholarship Fund and used solely for the purpose of
paying the principal amounts of such scholarships as may be established,
for the necessary expense of administering the program. when established, and the necessary travel expense for the several recipients or
contestants; and
WHEREAS. it is further believed that the award of such scholarships could be made along the following lines, namely :
( 1 ) The contest to be open to all members of the graduating class in
each public high school who have maintained a scholastic average of C
or better during their first three years and the first semester of their fourth
year;
( 2) Each contestant to submit an essay or composition of between
2,500 and 3,000 words on the subject determined annually and in the
form prescribed by the Grand Lodge Committee on Public Schools.
such subject to be one directly related to some aspect of the aims, purposes. conduct. and operation of the public schools;
( 3) Such essays or compositions to be in the hands of the Assistant
Grand Lecturer for the Masonic District within which the high school
attended by the contestant may be located between Public Schools Week
and the next following June 30th;
( 4) The six ( 6) best essays or compositions submitted in each such
Masonic District shall be determined in such manner as may be set by the
said Committee on Public Schools;
( 5) From each such six ( 6) essays or compositions for each Masonic
District, one ( 1 ) ·shall be selected as best and the six ( 6) so selected
shall be judged the winners of the awards in the following order: 1st $3,000.00; 2nd- $2,500.00: 3rd - $1.500.00; 4th - $1,000.00; 5th $750.00; 6th - $500.00; and shall be so notified in writing by said Committee; in addition, the sum of $25.00 shall be awarded to each of the
five ( 5) remaining contestants in each of the six ( 6) Masonic Districts;
( 6) The necessary expenses to enable each winning contestant to
receive the award shall be paid by Grand Lodge from said Public Schools
Scholarship Fund;
( 7) All awards shall be announced at the next following convocation
of Grand Lodge and be paid in lump sum to the parents or guardians of
the winners. or in such other manner as they may request. with the understanding that such award shall be used for the furtherance of the education of the contestant;
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED :
First - That this Grand Lodge hereby endorses and approves the
proposal to offer such scholarships on an annual basis;
Second - That the Committee on Public Schools is hereby authorized. empowered, and directed to prepare and institute a program of

286

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

financial assistance to members of the graduating classes of the several
public high schools throughout California and Ha"'."aii, either a~ong the
lines hereinabove suggested, or along such other lines as to said Com~
mittee may seem best;
Third - That the several officers of Grand Lodge. Lecturers. and
Inspectors be and they are each hereby authorized. empo"'."ered, and
directed to do all such things and take any and all such action as may
be requisite to fully implement and carry out such program when established by said Committee on Public Schools. and to expend such sums
of money as said Committee may deem proper from the general fun.ds
of Grand Lodge until such funds can be reimbur~ed ~ro_m .th~ u_iomes
proposed to be paid by the several active Lodges m this 1unsd1ct1on;
Fourth - That the provisions of this resolution shall be effective on
and after its adoption, and shall continue in effect from year to y~ar
thereafter. unless and until repealed, rescinded. or amended by action
of Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted.
.Le;wis D. SKYHAWK. M .• No. 789
RussELL THOMPSON, S. W .. No. 789
)uLIAN W. FLtNT. f. W .. No. 789
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes. on Finance,
and on Public Schools.

The Committee on Finance:
There has been referred to your Committee on Finance. Resolution
No. 34 which would authorize the Committee on Public Schools to
prepar~ and institute a program of financial assistance to California and
Hawaii high school graduates.
.
.
The resolution would authorize the Grand Lodge Officers, mcludmg
Inspectors. to expend such sums of money as the Committee on Public
Schools "may deem proper" from the General Funds of Grand Lodge
for such a program.
The looseness and uncertainty inherent in the language of the resolution makes the exact budgeting of such a program impossible.
.
Until such time as a more explicit and understandable program is
presented, one that can be definitely evaluated in terms of cost. your
Committee on Finance must regard the proposal as merely a blank check
on Grand Lodge funds. For this reason, we recommend a no vote.
The Committe on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes to whom was :eferred Resolution No. 34 entitled Masonic Public School Scholarships
reports as follows :
.
. .
.
First we call attention to the title given to the resolution which 1s misleading. We feel it should be entitled Masonic P~blic School ~say _Contests. because this is exactly what is proposed m the resolution. 1.e.. a

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

287

cash award to the winners of such contests, with the understanding that
such sums shall be used for the further education of the contestant.
There is no provision, however, for assuring that the funds so provided
shall be put to such use.
Your Committee, and of course the Fraternity as a whole. is irre:oca~ly dedicated to the public school and the education of our youth as
1s ev~denced by the continually expanding activities each year by our
Public School Committee. We feel. however. that our energies can better
be channeled int.a greater support of our present school program rather
than to engage m such a complex program as this resolution proposes.
W e are aware also that scholarships, in the true sense of the word
are presently mor~ readily available than at any previous time in history
and that no qualified student need be denied the necessary assistance
to further his education.
We acknowledge that a number of organizations do conduct similar
essay contests to those proposed and they are to be commended for this
activity. Masonry, however worthy the cause. cannot be expected to be
all things to ~II people. We commend the thought behind the proposers
of th~ r~solutton but feel. that this is not a field in which we should engage
at this time. The Committee on furisprudence advises that the resolution
involves no question of law.
We, therefore, move adoption of the resol ution but the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes recommends a no vote.
The Committee on Public S chools indicated its concurrence with this
report and the recommendations.
A majority voted against the resolution.
HOSPITAL MEDICAL PLANS-BOARDS OF RELIEF

(35)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS , at the 1956 Communication the various employees of
the Bo~rds of Relief and Employment Bureaus were integrated into
Masonic Homes of California Retirement Income Plan; and
WHEREAS. certain Boards of Relief have made inquiries regarding
these same employees being included in the Grand Lodge Employees
Health and Medical Insurance Program; and
WHEREAS , these employees are not seeking something for nothing .
but feel they would get better coverage being part of a group plan than
they can buy as individuals; and
BE IT THEREFORE RESO LVED. that all Board of Relief Employees now covered by the Masonic Homes of California Retirement
Income Plan also become eligible to participate in the Health and
Medical Insurance Program;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Grand Master and Grand

288

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

plish this.
Secret ary be instruc ted to take the necess ary steps to accom
Respe ctfully submi tted,
GEORGE C. CoURREGES, P.M., No. 349
Financ e,
Referr ed to Comm ittees on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses, on
l.
Contro
and to the Board of

The Comm ittee on Finance:
Resolu tion
There has been referre d to your Comm ittee on Financ e
yees now
emplo
Relief
of
s
Board
No. 35 which would provid e that all
e eligible
becom
also
Plan
ment
Retire
s
covere d by the Mason ic Home
nce Pro~
Insura
al
Medic
and
Health
Lodge
Grand
the
to partic ipate in
gram.
le cost
It is impossible at this time to proper ly budge t the probab
Come
Financ
should this resolu tion be approv ed for the reason that your
r and
numbe
to
as
mittee has not been provid ed with any inform ation
of
ion
prorat
,
pation
partici
of
extent
types of emplo yees to be covered,
of
Board
a
of
yee
emplo
an
is
who
er.
costs. etc .. by either the propos
func~
Relief
of
s
Board
which
under
ol
Contr
of
Relief. or by the Board
tion.
This Comm ittee recom mends a no vote.
Th£>. Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses .
yees now
Resolu tion No. 35 propo ses that all Board of Relief emplo
e Plan
Incom
ment
Retire
rnia
Califo
of
s
Home
ic
covere d by the Mason
yees
Emplo
also becom e eligible to partic ipate in the Grand Lodge
Health and Medic al Insura nce Progra m .
s that an
The Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses believe
ized.
author
were
pation
inequi table condit ion would result if such partici
Grand
the
that
ry.
contra
We must assum e, lackin g inform ation to the
of the cost of
Lodge would be expec ted to pay the emplo yer's share
s of Board of
salarie
Since
funds.
Lodge
such a progra m from Grand
rather from
but
Relief emplo yees are not paid from Grand Lodge funds.
Relief, an
of
Board
funds contri buted by the Lodge s composing each
to the
tely
rtiona
propo
bute
contri
s
inequi ty would result since all Lodge
or
fair
either
be
to
it
e
believ
not
do
We
.
genera l funds of Grand Lodge
to
Relief
of
Board
a
in
pating
partici
not
s
Lodge
ask
prope r policy to
share in the cost of operat ing such Board s of Relief.
mend a
We, theref ore, move adopti on of the resolu tion but recom
no vote.
The Board of Contr ol withhe ld its recom menda tion.
Adopt ed.

(36)
propo nents
A resolu tion design ated as No. 36 was withd rawn by its
prior to distrib ution to the consti tuent Lodge s.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PLAC E OF MEE TING -RES CIND CERT AIN LIQU
REST RICT IONS

289
OR

(37)
rnia:
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
and, in
ing
confus
are
ns
decisio
and
WHE REAS . our legislation
rnia
Califo
the
hout
throug
ed
scatter
are
and
some cases. conflicting
the
clarify
to
sed
propo
being
is
tion
legisla
new
and
Mason ic Code,
and
ings;
permi tted activities at social and other gather
preven t
WHE REAS , the legisla tion and decisions at presen t would
nd
Scotla
nd,
Engla
in
s
Lodge
many
g
a Califo rnia Mason from visitin
these
of
many
since
ca,
Ameri
South
and
ies.
and other Europ ean countr
gather ings in
Lodge s serve or consum e wine and liquor at their social
ing dinner
attend
from
s
Lodge Templ es, and also would preven t Mason
rants
restau
best
our
of
many
in
dances , dinner s and other social affairs
nce
existe
the
to
due
s
custom
social
ished
and hotels and following establ
ns;
locatio
such
at
bar
a
of
raphs
NOW . THER EFOR E. BE IT RESO LVED . that Parag
the
of
515c
and
408b
I 99b, l 99c, l 99f, 199i, l 99k, 324£. 321g, 324h,
that
and
ed,
repeal
are,
hereby
Califo rnia Mason ic Code be, and they
by deletin g the
Sectio n 108 of the Califo rnia Mason ic Code be amend ed
words :
ic
"nor shall any such liquor s be used or served at any Mason
banqu et or gather ing."
Respe ctfully submi tted,
LEO E. ANDERSON, P.M .. No. 355
rudenc e, and on Policy and Gener al
Jurisp
on
ittees
Referr ed to Comm
Purpo ses.
The above resolu tion was withd rawn by its propon ent.
PLAC E OF MEE TING -PER MIT SALE OF
BOTT LED LIQU ORS

(38)
rnia:
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
Mason ic
WHE REAS , many halls which are suitab le for use by
which
gs
buildin
in
d
locate
are
s
zation
organi
ic
Mason
Lodge s and other
build~
some
and
floors
were constr ucted for comm ercial use in the lower
y
grocer
by
use
for
le
ings owned by Mason ic organi zation s are suitab
have
s
zation
organi
and
s
Lodge
ic
Mason
stores and other busine sses and
due to exist~
been unable to secure maximum incom e from the buildi ngs
many cases,
in
,
which
Code
ic
Mason
rnia
Califo
the
in
ing regula tions
nity;
Frater
the
to
has create d a hardsh ip with no resulti ng benefi t
ing sec~
follow
the
that
.
NOW , THER EFOR E, BE IT RESO LVED
Code:
ic
Mason
rnia
tion be added to the Califo
l meet~
324.1 - A Mason ic Lodge shall not hold a stated or specia

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ing in, or own or rent a building containing a bar regularly operated for the sale of liquor or a liquor store except that a tenant
in such building engaged primarily in the sale or distribution of
other merchandise may sell bottled liquors incidental to the sale
of such other merchandise, provided, and then only if the exterior
of such building does not carry advertising of liquor which dominates the advertising of the other parts of the business being conducted or which advertising, due to its location or form, may make
such building undesirable for ownership or use by a Masonic
Lodge.
This section shall not require a Lodge to vacate leased premises
prior to the expiration of leases made in good faith. to violate
leases, or to refuse to accept buildings received from an estate or
by gift but such buildings so received should be sold or otherwise
disposed of or the offending use should be terminated within a
reasonable time.
RespectfuHy submitted,
LEO E. ANDERSON, P.M., No.355
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

solemnity of the instaHation ceremony, and provided further that
no liquor shall be served to or consumed by members or guests
during such Lodge installation ceremony."
Respectfully submitted,
LEo E. ANDERSON, P.M.. No.355
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
(For action by Grand Lodge see page 226.)

290

PLACE OF MEETING OTHER THAN A
LODGE HALL-WHEREUQUORS MAY BE SERVED
(39)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there has been a great deal of confusion as to whether
or not Lodges and other Masonic organizations could hold dinners,
dinner dances and other social events in hotels and restaurants and as
to whether or not Masonic groups were able to follow the usual social
customs at such affairs; and
WHEREAS. it appears that this confusion should be eliminated and
that Masons and Masonic groups should be able to hold such gatherings
which could be conducted in the same manner as other people;
NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that the following
section be added to the California Masonic Code:
"Section 324.2. Social and other gatherings and meetings. A
Masonic Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, may hold social
gatherings, dinners, dinner dances, or other social events, or may
hold an open installation ofofficers, in a hotel. restaurant or other
establishment serving liquor or operating a bar; provided, however, in case of an open installation of a Masonic Lodge, the
Grand Master must first approve the location as suitable to the

291

STANDARDS OF PROPRIETY
(40)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there is being presented to the 1966 Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California a resolution which is open to a construction not in harmony with other resolutions being submitted as a result of the report of the Special Committee
appointed in 1965 as to modifications of Masonic law respecting liquor
and the undersigned feels that an alternate resolution should be considered in order to avoid this possibility of conflict;
NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED, that the following
section be added to the California Masonic Code:
Section 515.2. All Masons within the ter,ritorial jurisdiction of
The Grand Lodge of California shall be governed by the generally accepted principles of good conduct and propriety in their
various activities and so conduct themselves as to conform to the
standards of .Freemasonry throughout the world.
RespectfuHy submitted,
LEO E. ANDERSON, P.M., No.355
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

SERVING LIQUORS AND ELIGIBILITY OF
BARTENDERS
(41)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, it is the duty and obligation of all Master Masons
within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California to abide by all
rules and regulations set down by the California Masonic Code; and
WHEREAS, we find such code is outdated, in some respects, with
the civilian laws of the land; and
WHEREAS, we find our own members, and those interested in
membership in our Fraternity, wondering what is wrong with Masonry
that we have laws that are contrary to the recognized way of living
today; and

293

PRO CEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

WHEREA S, we find that we are not only out of step with normal
habits of the population as a whole. but we find that other jurisdictions
do not follow our pattern regarding some phases of our laws, and
WHEREA S, we find it is a popular consensus of opinion among our
membership that some of our laws should be modernized to conform
with our modern way of life.
BE IT NOW THEREFO RE RESOLVE D . that the following sections of our Masonic Code be repealed;
408 B. all of Section 513, 683 AV and 683 AX
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVE D. that all references contained in
our laws, rules , regulations. edicts, decisions or any other matter on this
subject, written or unwritten, having the force of law, which are contrary
hereto are rescinded.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE C. CouRREGES , P.M .. No. 349
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudenc e, and on Policy and General
Purposes .
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

SERVING LIQUOR S-SOCIA L GATHER INGS WHEN
MEAL IS SERVED
(43)
F. & A. M. of California:
lodge
Grand
To the Most Worshipful

292

SERVING LIQUOR S-WEDD INGS AND
SOCIAL AFFAIRS IN MASONIC TEMPLES
(42)
To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREA S, the passing of time has brought about a change in the
law and opinion of proper social and moral conduct in relation to the
serving and consumption of spirituous, malt or fermented liquor; and
WHEREAS . decisions of Grand Masters over the years have been
based on our existing laws that may prove to be obsolete thus making
them contradictor y to the fraternal and membership interest: and
WHEREA S, it is that restraint be exercised on some occasions but
that the intent should be confined to regular Blue Lodge meetings and
the regular meetings of Concordant Bodies of Masonry;
BE IT THEREFO RE RESOLVE D. that a temple may be rented
for the purpose of a wedding reception or other social affairs where
spirituous, malt or fermented liquors will be served, provided no regular
meeting of a Blue Lodge or Concordant Body is being held at the same
time;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVE D, that all references contained in
our laws, rules, regulations, edicts. decisions or any other matter on this
subject, written or unwritten, having the force of law, which are contrary
hereto are rescinded.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE C. CouRREGES , P .M .• No. 349
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudenc e, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

WHEREA S, the passing of time has brought about a change in the
law and opinion of proper social and moral conduct in relation to the
serving and consumption of spirituous, malt or fermented liquors; and
WHEREA S, decisions of Grand Masters over the years have been
based on our existing laws that may prove to be obsolete thus making
them contradictor y to the fraternal and membership interest; and
WHEREA S. it is that restraint be exercised on some occasions but
that the intent should be confined to regular Blue Lodge meetings and
the regular meetings of Concordant Bodies of Masonry.
BE IT THEREFO RE RESOLVE D. that at all social gatherings
where a regular meal is being served that a social or fellowship hour be
allowed, (not to exceed one hour) and may be held wherever the
civilian laws will permit; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVE D. that all references contained in
our laws, rules, regulations, edicts, decisions or any other matter on this
subject, written or unwritten, having the force of law, which are contrary
hereto are rescinded.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE C. CouRREGEs , P.M .. No. 349
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudenc e, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

SERVING LIQUOR S-BANQ UET OR SOCIAL
ROOMS OF MASONIC TEMPLES
(44)
To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREA S, Masonic Lodges de.rive a portion of their operating
revenue from the rental of their banquet and social rooms; and
WHEREA S. many Masonic Lodges are largely dependent upon
and greatly in need of the revenues from aforesaid rentals; and
WHEREA S. said Lodges are in need of additional and greater
revenues from the rental of aforesaid facilities for the purposes of meeting the demands of operating expense; and
WHEREAS . the present restrictive provisions of Section 199k of
the California Masonic Code discourages the rental of the aforesaid
facilities by many non-Masoni c individuals. groups and organization s
by reason of the fact that these gatherings customarily serve some
alcoholic beverages in moderate amounts; and
WHEREAS . unless said individuals. groups and organization s are

29i

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

permitted to serve some alcoholic beverages in moderate amounts at
their functions and gatherings. they will be disinclined to rent the aforesaid facilities with the resultant loss of substantial and needed revenue to
the Lodges: now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED that Section 199h be rephrased to read "a
temple may not be rented for a lunch or dinner after which bingo or
whist is to be played for prizes." and that Section 199k of the California
Masonic Code be repealed and the following provisions be substituted
in its stead:
a) A Masonic Temple Association, Corporation, Lodge, or group
of Masons shall not, under any conditions or circumstances.
permit or allow, either by lease or otherwise, any person, association, group, lodge, society or organization to use any part
or portion of a Masonic Temple for the purpose of selling
intoxicating liquor therein or thereon , or for holding any meeting or gathering where intoxicating liquor is to be sold.
b) In no event shall alcoholic beverages be permitted on the
premises at a time when any Masonic or related function is
taking place.
c) Alcoholic beverages may be permitted only within the banquet
or social rooms of a Masonic Temple and in no event within
a Lodge Room.
RAYMOND H. FRONBERG, M .. No. 690
FRED W. DIESTEL, M .. No. 651
CLARENCE HowELL, P.M.. No. 762
R1cHARD V. GREGORY, ]. W .. No. 651
R. P. SIM. S.W .. No. 168
RALPH W. GAINES, f. W .. No. 226
LEONARD L. SCANNELL, /. W ., No. 737
KENNETH THOMPSON, S. W .. No. 226
WALTER C. KRUTMAN, M .. No. iOO
ROBERT G. VANNESS, M .. No. 762
ELMER E . ORNER, M .• No. 745
GEORGE E. WATTS, M .. No. 226
DALE MACFARLANE, /. W .. No. 745
JAMES E. RAGLAND, /. W .. No. 762
RAMON R. BLAIR, /. W .. No. 690
Loms F. CARMICHAEL, J.W .. No. 714
HARRY E. CARVER, P.M .. No. 7i5
CARL W. ScHWAHN, JR., M .. No. 737
PARK SMITH, S. W .. No. 7i5
W. B. TAYLOR, S. W., No. iOO
}AMES MANNON, M .. No. 376
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

295

EMERGENT RESOLUTION
Upon consent of five-sixths vote of the members present, the Grand
Master declared the following resolution emergent and subject to consideration at this communication:

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION DATE
To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
RESOLVED: That Section 101 of the California Masonic Code be
amended to read as follows:
"Section 101. Annual. Each Annual Communication shall be
held in the City and County of San Francisco, commencing on the
third Monday of October, at ten o'clock A.M .. provided, however, that any Annual Communication may be held at any other
place in the State of California upon adoption by this Grand
Lodge at any previous Communication by a five-sixths vote of a
resolution so providing."
Respectfully submitted.
Members of Board of Trustees
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
A member of the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic
Memorial Temple spoke in favor of the resolution and urged a yes vote.
The Chairman of the Committee on Policy and Gl?neral Purposes
spoke against the resolution and urged a no vote. The Committee on
Jurispruden ce indicated the wording of the resolution, if adopted, would
accomplish the purpose intended.
A majority voted against the resolution.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the close of the 1965 Communication of this Grand Lodge, and in
accordance with policy as to Committee Structure adopted at the 1964
Communication, the then Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Past
Grand Master Frank Harwell. Jr. , announced his retirement as Chairman and member of the Committee, he having served as such from the
close of the 1954 Communication. a period of eleven ( 1 I) years. These
were years of valuable service rendered by a dedicated Mason, well
versed in the field of finance and investments. The strong financial condition of this Grand Lodge is testimony to the leadership afforded by
Frank Harwell, Jr. Within the short period of three months from his
retirement from the Committee, he was summoned from his earthly
labors to the Supreme Grand Lodge on High. and your present Com~
mittee pauses in these few words to pay just tribute to a beloved companion and leader.

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT

budgeted for Workmen's Compensation Insurance; to an increase of
$1,125 for office supplies which will be used in the 1966-1967 fiscal year;
to an expenditure of $890, which was not budgeted, for outside services
used in connection with mechanization in the Grand Lodge office and.
principally, to a supplemental appropriation of $24.600 to apply to the
deficit in publishing and sending the California Freemason to all members
of Lodges in this Jurisd iction. A balance of $4.000 remaining in a reserve account established for the California Freemason when it was on
a subscription basis was also applied to the current deficit, reducing the
amount of the supplemental appropriation. I n continuing the S pecial
Committee on Committee Structure for 1965-1966, no provision was
made in the budget for its expenses which amounted to $155 and for
which a supplemental appropriation was approved. The Com mittee on
Finance recommends approval of the supplemental appropriations totaling $31,874.76.

In accordance with the requirement of the California Masonic Code,
an audit of the finances of Grand Lodge and its agencies for the fiscal
year ended June 30. 1966, has been completed. Copies of the several
reports comprising the audit have been examined by the members of this
Committee and it is our opinion that the reports correctly state the
financial position of Grand Lodge.
It is most interesting, and gratifying. to note an over-all improvement in the financial picture of Grand Lodge and its agencies - this
notwithstandin g a somewhat turbulent year in the financial world, and
otherwise.
For the fiscal year under review. the budget for 1965-1966 anticipated
total income of $426.000 and total appropriations , or disbursements, of
$404 ,584. leaving an estimated excess of receipts over disbursements,
of $21.416. Against these budgeted figures, total income was $438 ,743
and total disbursements were $386.661. Receipts for the fiscal year were
up $12,743 and expenses were down $19.500, providing a cash. ~urplus
before capital disbursements, of some $30.000 higher than ant1c1pated .
this before considering the cost of producing the California Freemason.
The budget for the California Freemason, based on estimates of
$60.273 for revenue and $60,900 for expenses. was not sufficient and a
substantial deficit occurred for reasons explained in a subsequent section
of this report. With total expenses of $89,996. thedeficit for the California Freemason proved to be $29,722. This sum. plus $4.926 spent for
capital items, served to reduce the cash surplus remaining in the budget
at June 30. 1966, to $17,434.
As in former ·y ears, the Grand Secretary and his staff of employees
have rendered competent, conscientious service in the administering of
their duties. Their loyalty to Grand Lodge communicates to Grand
Lodge officers and committeemen and materially contributes to the
favorable financial reports which are being presented.
GRANO TREASURER'S REPORT

The Grand Treasurer's Report was referred to and examined by this
Committee. Not only do the items having to do with Finance tie in with
the Audit, but the report contains much of interest to the Craft in matters
of Grand Lodge investments and the financial details of Grand Lodge
agencies. The keen interest of the Grand Treasurer in all things appertaining to Freemasonry and Grand Lodge, coupled with his known abilities in the business and financial worlds, make him a great asset to this
Committee and to the Fraternity. We recommend approval of his report.
EXCESS EXPENDITURES OVER BUDGETED APPROPRIATION S

There were presented to the Grand Master, and to the Chairman of
the Committee on Finance. for a pproval during the last fiscal year, requests for sixteen ( 16) supplemental appropriations totaling $31,874.76.
Of these, your attention is called to an increase of $1 ,825 in the amount

297

"CALIFORNIA FREEMASON" MAGAZINE

A second year has now ended during which our quarterly magazine
has been furnished free to all regular members of Lodges in this Jurisdiction. Previous reports indicated the difficulty, even impossibility, of
determining the exact per capita sum necessary to cover the cost of publishing and distributing the magazine for any one year. The deficit for
the year ended was occasioned substantially by inventorying paper stock
to be used during the current Grand Lodge Year.
It is apparent, however, from figures now available, that a year's expenses, based on current costs and the new plan of editorship proposed
by the Editor-in-Chie f, Judge Newcomb Con dee, will require a 1Oc per
capita increase to- the sum of $.35. Su ch a per capita, based on a membership of 240.000. will produce revenue of $84.000 against estimated
expenses of $81,000, and your C ommittee on Finance so recommends .
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

The gradual. but noticeable improvement, in the Grand Lodge
Library on the second floor of this building requires additional cabinets
from time to time. A program designed to improve the use and attractiveness of the Masonic Temple at Columbia is being carried forward. New,
and necessary. equipment in the Grand Lodge office is provided for in
this budget. The cost of these programs for the current fiscal year,
$9,250, will be found under Capital Additions and Replacemen ts.
MASONIC HOMES

The Committee on Finance has received and examined the Report
of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes. They a gain report that the per
capita sum to be requested fro m Grand Lodge can remain at $1.50 and
this Committee concurs with the conclusions reached by the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes.

298

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

However, we call your attention to the fact that of total r~venues of
$1 :433,927 received by the Masonic Homes in the fiscal year Just ended.
only $361,638 was obtained from the per capita of $1.50. Inv~stment and
other income accounted for the remainder of $1,072,289. With total expenses of $1,886.744 for the fiscal year, it was necessary for the Trust:es
to transfer $452.817 from certain reserves in order to match total income with expenses. This transfer of reserve funds. in a y~ar of everrising costs was materially less than in preceding years. This encouraging fact. evidence of good management on the part of all connected with
the Masonic Homes. coupled with an improved Statement of Assets,
Liabilities. Reserves and Fund Balances on June 30, 1966. indicates t~e
fine job being done by the Trustees in the administration of the Masonic
Homes.
The Trustees have alerted you in their report as to problems of much
higher wages for hospital and other help, much hig~er costs ~or the
medical programs at the two homes, and higher operating costs in g:neral. This poses the obvious question - how much longer can we maintain the per capita at $1.50? The Committee on Finance offers the following ·resolution:
RESOLVED. that the sum of $1.50 per capita be levied for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1967. the proceeds to be paid to the Trustees of
the Masonic Homes of California.
UNITED GRAND LoDGE OP ENGLAND
On June 27, 1967, the United Grand Lodge of England is holding a
special communication to celebrate the completion of two hundred and
fifty years since the founding of the United Gra~d Lodge of England.
It is the desire of its Grand Master that all recognized Grand Lodges the
world over be represented at the special Communication by their Grand
Masters and Grand Secretaries. accompanied by their ladies. and. accordingly. this Grand Lodge has received such an invitation. We have
been favored on special occasions by visits of Grand Lodge officers
from the British Isles and from other Grand Lodges around the world.
We have welcomed these visits as being in the best interests of Freemasonry. Feeling that it will be the desire of the brethren of this Grand
Lodge that we be represented when the mother Gr.and L~ge celebra~es
the 250th anniversary of its existence. the Committee on Finance has included in the budget the sum of $4.500 for the purpose of sending our
Grand Master and Grand Secretary, together with their wives, to the
communication in London, England. We recommend approval of this
item.
SALARIES
. During the last two fiscal years, 1964-1965 and 1965-1966, the
budget for salaries remained the same and, in each of the two years,

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

299

actual salaries paid were approximately $8,000 less than the budgeted
amounts.
Notwithstanding this favorable fact, we are increasing the budget
for salaries this year from $93,000 to $98.000. This is a modest increase
to enable the Grand Secretary to make such salary adjustments as he
deems advisable for employees other than himself in the Grand Lodge
office.
Coupled with compensation for employees in this day and time are
the related subjects of retirement and medical benefits. Grand Lodge and
the Masonic Homes instituted such plans some years ago. The plans have
and are benefiting employees for whom they were intended and they
will be used more extensively in years to come. These plans enable us
to be competitive in the labor market for the type of employee we seek.
It has been apparent that our plans were somewhat outmoded and
that they needed improving. Studies were made by our actuaries and
their recommendations were adopted by the Retirement Plan Committee
and the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California. The proposed
budget reflects the increase in premium costs by reason of up-dating the
Retirement Pension Plan.
CALIFORNIA ·MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
Your Committee on Finance shares with all members of Grand
Lodge the satisfaction of a debt-free building and the pleasure of witnessing the burning of documents symbolizing the mortgage indebtedness incurred in the building of this Memorial Temple. Too much praise
cannot be given those who led us in the building and financing of this
Temple and to the members of the Craft who assumed the burden of
the $1.00 per capita tax which has now been removed by action of this
Grand Lodge.
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
Such matters in the Grand Master's Message as were referred to the
Committee on Finance are provided for in the proposed budget.

BUDGET- 1966-1967
ADMINISTRATIVE AND 0PPICE
Salaries .....•................................•......................................... $ 98,000.00
Grand Lodge Offices Temple Operation and Expense.................................... 24.000.00
Audit ....................................................................................
3.000.00
Grand Treasurer ...................•............................................
250.00
Postage and Express ..........................................................
5.750.00
Telephone and Telegraph ................................................. .
4,500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ........................
5.000.00
Investment Counsel ............................................................
500.00

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Employees ----------···-······-·······················
Grand Lodge Agencies ···---------·····················-----··········
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits....................... .
Outside Services - Clerical --··--·-·····-···············-----····-------Personal Property Taxes ··········------··--·-······················-·······

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

12,500.00
3,500.00
2.000.00
2,000.00
1,020.00

TOTAL ····················--··-·-····---------···-····· ····················--·$162,020.00
GEN ERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication ·-····--··················--····--·----·--·-----------$ 15,500.00
5.000.00
Conferences ·······-·················-······-··································--·-Grand Lodge Officers' Travel ........................................... . 10,000.00
850.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler....................................... .
10.800.00
Grand Master's Travel ·····-----···························--···----·------1.800.00
Grand Master's Secretarial ·-····--·················----······----·········
4.200.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges .... ------··············----···--·------··
300.00
Grand Lodge Regalia ···--··-···-----------·--·-···························-·
Representatives Mileage -·--···--····························-···----···-·-- 37,000.00
Printing ..................................................................... ·······-··· 27 .000.00
900.00
Retirement Pay ···································--·--···············-··-·--··-·-·
5.000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ..............................................
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ··················----···----······················ .......... .
2,750.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ·············-····-·······---Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
1.475.00
Conference and Travel Expense ........................... .
4,500.00
···········---···
Veteran Buttons ·······················-······----···--··········
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges ··············-----··· 12.000.00
Public Liability and Extended Coverage .................... 53.000.00
1,000.00
Miscellaneous ................................................................
United Grand Lodge of England - 250th
4,500.00
Special Communication ................................................
TOTAL ----···························-····--·································-$211 ,450.00
A PPROP RIATION S

Activities Committee -·--··································--------------------$
Board of Control ----------------··-----------------------·--------------····---···
Charters Committee ············--------···--····················-··············
Columbia Temple···········-············································--··--··
C ommercialism Committee ···-·--·---------·-·················-·······-··Constitution Observance Committee ................................
Correspondence Committee ··············--··--················- ...........

5,000.00
1,800.00
750.00
1,000.00
750.00
2,500.00
100.00

301

DeMolay Committee ......................................................... .
500.00
Employment Bureaus ------·-··········--·-----····-------------·-·········---- 10.000.00
Employment Bureaus/Employees Medical Benefits......... .
] .000.00
Endowment Board ·---··-·································-········ ············· 19,000.00
Grand Master's Relief Fund ..............................................
4,100.00
200.00
·············
History Committee -------·············--··-----·········--·--······
500.00
Investment Committee ···---············--------··········-···················
2.500.00
Lodge Financing Committee ·--------------··-------············-------Masonic C emeteries Committee ........................................
3.000.00
800.00
Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense ·············-····-----5.000.00
Public Schools Committee ·················-·-···········-·--·-············ ·
2,000.00
Masonic Education Committee ··--·--------------------------···········
1,500.00
Masonic Information Committee ·-·----········-----·------·············
1,450.00
Library Commission ··--···--··-·-----------------·-------------················
500.00
Sojourners C ommittee ·················-----------···-·····--------·--···----University Clubhouses:
Berkeley ---------·------------····----···········---------···········--·-------- 21.000.00
Los Angeles ----------------------------------------------------·-····-------- 22 .000.00
125.00
Code Commission -------·····-----·················-------------·---·············
Old Masonic Hall - Los Angeles ..................................... .
1,000.00
Grand Master's Special Committee on C.M.C. ............... .
500.00
Committee on Finance - Special Study........................... .
500.00
TOTAL ........................................................................ $! 09 ,075.00
RECAPITULATION

Administrative" and Office .................................................. $162,020.00
General Expense ······-------·--················································ 211,450.00
Appropriations .................................................................... I 09,075.00
GRAND T O T AL ........................................................ $482,545.00
ESTIMATED INCOME

Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc ....................... $412,000.00
Income from Investments. Interest ·-·---·····-·--------···-·-·····-··· 43,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes re Endowment Board...... 19,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes re Secretarial and
Other Services --------····--··-············-··-··--------··················· 24,000.00
6,000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous Income ···········---------------·----···
TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME .......................... $504,000.00
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS --·-·······------·······--------·········· 482,545.00
ESTIMATED CASH SURPLUS ............................ $ 21,455.00

302

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Grand Lodge Miscellaneous ................................••............ $ 5,000.00
2,450.00
Display Cabinets ................................................................
1,800.00
Columbia Temple ................................................................
TOTAL ························-································-···-·········$ 9.250.00
ESTIMAED CASH SURPLUS
AFTER CAPITAL ADDITIONS
AND REPLACEMENES .................................... $ 12.205.00
PER CAPITA
Masonic Homes ...........•...................................................... $
Grand Lodge Constitutional ..............................................
Grand Lodge Additional ....................................................
California Freemason ........................................................

1.05
.50
1.22
.35

TOTAL ........................................................................ $
3.57
Estimated Budget for California Freemason ....................$ 81,000.00
Estimated Income................................................................ 84,000.00
EXCESS RECEIPTS OVER
DISBURSEMENTS ............................................$

3,000.00

BUDGET

ONE QUARTER-JULY 1, 1967 THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 30, 1967
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE
Salaries ...................•............................................................ $ 26,500.00
Grand Lodge Offices 6,000.00
Temple Operation and Maintenance......................... .
Grand Treasurer ............................................................... .
100.00
1,600.00
Postage and Express ..........................................................
1,400.00
Telephone and Telegraph ................................................. .
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ........................
400.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits......................
500.00
3,000.00
Audit ....................................................................................
TOTAL .........................•.......................................•........ $ 39,500.00
GENERAL EXPENSE
Annual Communication ..................................•.................$ 8,000.00
1,000.00
Conferences ........................................................................
3,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense..............................
5,400.00
Printing ................................................................................

Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer •...........................................................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense......................... .
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery..............................
Retirement Pay ..................................................................
Veteran Buttons ..................................................................
Supplies and Miscellaneous ..............................................
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges ........................
Miscellaneous ................................................................

303

150.00
1,500.00
800.00
225.00
1.500.00
1,000.00
12,000.00
600.00

TOTAL ...................................................................•....$ 35,175.00
APPROPRIATIONS
Relief Fund - Grand Master ............................................ $
Activities Committee ......................................................... .
Board of Control ............................................................... .
Charters Committee ............................................................
Constitution Observance Committee ............................... .
DeMolay Committee ......................................................... .
Endowment Board ..............................................................
Masonic Education Committee ..........................................
Lodge Financing Committee ..............................................
Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense ........................
Public Schools Committee ..................................................
Commercialism Committee ................................................
Code Commission ..............................................................
Investment Committee ........................................................
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ..................................
Sojourners Committee ........................................................
Masonic Information Committee ..................................... .
Library Commission ............................................................
Columbia Temple Committee..............................................
History Committee ..............................................................
Old Masonic Hall, Los Angeles, Committee ..................... .

1,200.00
1.250.00
500.00
200.00
700.00
150.00
2.500.00
300.00
625.00
200.00
1,000.00
200.00
50.00
150.00
650.00
100.00
250.00
300.00
350.00
50.00
250.00

TOTAL ·······-·······························································$ 10,975.00
RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office .................•.............•..................$ 39,500.00
General Expense ................................................................ 35,175.00
Appropriations .................................................................... 10.975.00
GRAND TOTAL ..........................•............................. $ 85,650.00

304

PRO CEEDINGS OF THE

In analyzing the budget, it is readily noticeable that expenses have
increased. Salary adjustments are necessary and provision has been
made for increases which will total approximately $5,000.00. Charges
to Grand Lodge for office space and other services are estimated to increase $6.000.00. The balance in a substantial reserve in the Retirement
Plan, not used at the time of death of Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand
Secretary. has now been applied to premiums due in succeeding years.
Annual premium costs for Grand Lodge and Grand Lodge Agencies
employees will now increase by approximately $8.500.00 due to the
up-dating of the Retirement Plan and the using of reserves. A Personal
Property Tax on equipment belonging to Grand Lodge has now been
levied .a nd you will find a new expense item of $1.020.00 in this connection. A non-recurring item in the budget is the appropriation of
$4.500.00 for our delegates to the 250th Communication of the Grand
Lodge of England.
It is now necessary that the blanket Public Liability Policy handled
by Grand Lodge for all but eleven of its 711 Lodges be re-written to
include all Lodges. Grand Lodge formerly paid a three year premium
in advance on behalf of covered constituent Lodges and then billed
each covered Lodge for its proportionate share of the total premium at
the end of each year of the three year coverage. said billing including
a charge of $.0125 per capita for necessary premium financing and
bookkeeping services.
The new plan, now to be inaugurated, will accomplish several things.
The annual billing to Lodges will be eliminated because the proportionate share of each Lodge in the premium cost of the master policy
will be returned to Grand Lodge in the form of a per capita tax. For
example, constituent Lodges will not have to pay an insurance bill in
December, 1966. inasmuch as the new per capita incorporated in this
budget will not be payable until annual returns, for the year ending
June 30. 1967, are filed . For the reason that the new Public Liability
Policy to be written constitutes a true master policy, our insurance
counselor advises us that better protection can be obtained and at
more favorable rates. The policy will provide Public Liability with a
single $1 .000,000.00 limit including all legal liabilities. medical payment
benefits, broad form coverage on money and securities, and broad form
coverage on Lodge paraphernalia. The estimated annual per capita of
$.14 for this broadened and more complete coverage relates favorably
to your present costs.
To accomplish this revision, it is necessary to provide an additional
per capita of $.22 in this budget to take care of premium costs of approximately $53,000.00 for a nineteen months period, to be reduced to
a per capita of $.14 for twelve months of coverage in subsequent years.
assuming premium costs for this type of Public Liability insurance protection will remain stable.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

305

Again we state that actual costs to constituent Lodges will not be
increased through this procedural change; they should decrease. The
per capita servicing charge will be eliminated and there will be no insurance billings to Lodges to be paid in December, 1966.
Taken on the whole, the budget which we are presenting "holds the
line" compared to the budget for last year - excepting the items on
which we have just made special comment. We are confident that
those to whom will be intrusted the responsibility for the spending of
Grand Lodge funds will be ever conscious of their obligations to their
brethren .
We offer the following resolution, pointing out that the portion of
the total per capita, entitled "additional per capita for Grand Lodge,"
reflects a $.37 increase over last year and that it will provide a small
but, we hope. adequate cash surplus based on estimates of income and
expenses.
RESOLVED: That for the purposes of paying the expenses of
Grand Lodge, a per capita of $3.57 be levied for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1967, d ivided as follows:
Masonic Homes ----------------·---··-------·······--·-·--······················-·····-$1.50
Constitutional per capita for Grand Lodge............................ .50
Additional per capita for Grand Lodge.................................. 1.22
California Freemason per capita.............................................. .35
Total Per Capita ................................................................ $3.57
Respectfully submitted,

Guv B. M1zE, Chairman
Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was
separately adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.
OVATION FOR GRAND MASTER

Inspector Walter H. Wayman of the 635th District, on behalf of
Grand Lodge, expressed appreciation for the magnificent leadership of
Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith both during the year and at the
Annual Communication. An enthusiastic, standing ovation was then
accorded the Grand Master as a gesture of the love and respect felt for
him by all.
At 11 :35 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Friday.

306

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

Grand Sword Bearer. Jerrel I. Medlin, Porterville Lodge No. 303.
Grand Bible Bearer, Elbert A. Covell, Woodbridg e Lodge No. 131.
Senior Grand Deacon, Duncan J. Mclarty, Phoenix Lodge No. 178.
Junior Grand Deacon, Michael L. Manahan, Beverly Hills Lodge
No. 528.
Senior Grand Steward. Richard A. Krug, Lebanon Lodge No .495.
Junior Grand Steward , Robert C . Warren , Schofield Lodge No. 443.
Grand Pursuivant, Delbert N. Wade, Mendocino Lodge No. 179.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, Burton 0. Young , Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
Announcem ent was made of the following appointmen ts by the
Grand Master-elec t:
As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, the re-appointm ent
of Past Grand Master Alfred F. Breslauer and Edward J. Blickfeldt.
. As Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the appointment of Frank F. Goodman and Carl U . Zachrisson to succeed
T. Galt Atwood and Chester R. McPhee (terms expired).
At 11: 50 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 p.m.

MORNING SESSION-FR IDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1966
At 9:30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Marion H. Berrie, Past
Master of Acorn Lodge No. 494 and President of the East Bay Masters
and Wardens Association. The invocation was delivered by the Grand
Chaplain. The minutes of the morning, afternoon and evening sessions
of Thursday. October 13, were read and approved.

ANNUAL ELECTIO N
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying thereto.
The R. W. Laurence E. Dayton, Live Oak Lodge No. 61. was
elected Grand Master.
The R. W. John F. Porter. Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677, was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W . Eugene S. Hopp. King Solomon's Seaport Lodge
No. 260. was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Robert A. Crigler, John Marshall Lodge No. 636, was
elected Junior Grand W a rden.
The V. W. Paul A. Pflueger, Amity-Seal Rock Lodge No. 370, was
re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W . Edward H. Siems. Past Grand Master, Plymouth
Lodge No. 560. was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Harold N. Richards. Washington Lodge No. 20, was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
At the request of the Grand Master-elect, Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer announced the names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Dr. Philip W. Barrett. Hesperian Lodge No. 264.
Assistant Grand Lecturers : William F. Poynter, Veritas-Jon athan
Lodge No. 545; Frank P . Lemen. Three Pillars Lodge No. 613; Wallace
H . Fiske. East Belt Lodge No. 391 ; William H . Price, Evergreen Lodge
No. 259.
Grand Orator, Warren Harrison, Mount O so Lodge No. 460.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Jack F. Bowley, Amity-Seal Rock Lodge
No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Verne W. Hendrix, Mount Diablo Lodge
No. 448.
Grand Marshal. Ralph W. Winters, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
Grand Standard Bearer, Frank Zanier, Carpinteria Lodge No. 444.

307

308

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

AFTERN OON SESSIO N-Friday , October 14, 1966
At 2:00 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on. the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipf ul Bryant B. Hathaway,
Master of Calaveras Lodge No. 78. The Grand Chaplain delivered the
invocation .

INST ALLATlON OF OFFICER S
Most Worshipf ul Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master. acted as
Master of Ceremoni es and the officers, elected and appointed , were
installed by the retiring Grand Master in accordanc e with the Ritual.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecesso r with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Charles Albert Adams lapel pin was transferre d from the retiring to the incumbent Grand Master, and the other chair officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
Presented to the newly installed Grand Orator was the Everett
Houser lapel pin and the Robert B. Watts lapel pin was presented to
the newly installed Grand Chaplain on behalf of the retiring Grand
Chaplain by the Grand Master.
Most Worshipf ul Edgar V . Stewart, Jr. invested the retiring Grand
Master with the apron of his new designatio n and Most Worshipf ul
L. Harold Anderson presented a Past Grand Master's Pin. Laurence
E. Dayton, the newly installed Grand Master, then presented him with
a Past Grand Master Certificate .
A gift for Mrs. Smith was then tendered by the Grand Secretary on
behalf of the members of Grand Lodge. for which the junior Past Grand
Master expressed his gratitude and sincere appreciati on for having
served the Fraternity as its Grand Master.
Following the installatio n Most Worshipf ul Laurence E. Dayton
introduced to Grand Lodge members of his Lodge. He expressed his
feeling of humility in being elected to serve as Grand Master and urged
each member to increase his "candle power" so that the light and
strength of Freemaso nry would be seen and felt by all.
At 3 :20 p.m. all business being completed , Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

Grand Secretary

Lc.&7~
Grand Master

SPECI AL APPE NDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN IA

309

SPECIAL APP ENDIX
Page
Grand Lodge Audit----· ·------····-··---------·--------·---------- ······························-- 310
Audit of Annual Returns, 1966.....·------·····-··-········-···-····-·······--·-·-·····-·- 321
Masonic Homes Audit. ...--····---···················-·--················--······- --··-·····--· 323
Memorial Temple Audit---· -····-----·····-····-···--··················-···-·····--·-·-······-- 361
Statistical:
Residents of Union Citiy.................................................................. 366
Children of Covina Home..............·-·······-··--·-····-·······-----············-··-- 374
Contributions to Special Reserves .................................................. 376

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDITS

We attach the following:

LYBRAND, Ross BRos. &. MONTGOMERY

Exhibit A

Statement of assets,
fund balance

liabilities, and

Exhibit B

Statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed

CERTIFIED Pueuc AccOVNTANTS
ONE

BusH

STREET

SAN FRANCISCO 4
YU KON 1· S Jl:u
COOPERS &. LYBJlAND

OFF'ICCS IM TH£

Schedule 1

- Investments

Schedule 2

- Contributions received from Lodges

PRINCtl'"Al. CITIE.!!i OF' TM[

UN1TCD S'!'A.n:s

Schedule 3

-

Schedule 4
Schedule 5
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons Of the
State of California,

One page

1111 California Street,
San Francisco, California 94108.
we have examined the statement of assets, liabilities,
and fund balance of THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA as of June 30, 1966,
and the related statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed for the year then ended.

our examination was made in

accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records ·and such
other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circurnstances,

We previously examined and reported upon the financial

statements for the year ended June 30, 1965.
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present
fairly the assets, liabilities, and fund balance of The Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California at June 30, 1966 and 1965, arising primarily from cash
transactions, and the revenue received and expenses disbursed by
i t for the years then ended, on a consistent basis.

August 4, 1966

Administrative and office expense
General expe nse

-

Appropriations
Notes to fin ancial sta t ements

311

312

GRAND LODGE , F.

&

A. H. <:e CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

A S S ET S:

12.il

1966
67,090

$ 65,261

623,832

573,887

61, 311

21,802

193,125

2321908

878,268

828,597

57,914

52 , 988

12,980
525
256

39,062
425
506

71,675

92,981

$.d2l,7,Q~~

$2~~.~~2

$

$305,487)

Total (market value $880,806 and
$889, 741)

Other assets:
Furniture and fixtures (at cost, Note 2)
Insurance premiums advanced for Lodges
(Note 3)
Refundable deposit
Sundry receivables
Total assets
LI AB I LI TIES AND FUND BALANCE:
Liabilities :
Contribut i ons by in iti ates for the
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Associa tion
Advance payments by Lodges on annual
returns
Accrued payroll taxes and expense
Reserve for "California Freemason"
(Note 4)
Total liabilities
Fund balance:
Balance, beginning of year
Less, leg-al fees in settlement of estate

4,669

$

$

4,657

251
2,015

2,566

6 935

13,995

972,844

936,036
6, 143

2, 772
4,000

929 , 893

Add;
Net revenue for year, Exhibit B
Legacies received
Balance, end of year
Total liabilities and fund balance

37,254

40 , 747
2,204

1 1 010 1 098

972,844

$i,Q,1,1.r;m

$2~§.~~2

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

EXHIBIT B

GRAND LODGE, P. " A. M. <:I CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF REVENUE R.ECEIVBD 1Jl'D EXPENSES DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

STATEMENT OF ASSETS , LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965

Cash
Investlllents (at cost), Schedule l:
Bonds (market value $598,015 and $566,129)
Convertible preferred stock (market value
$58,113 and $18,125)
Common stock (market value $224,678 and

313

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Revenue;
Contributions received from Lodges,
Schedule 2
Less, those received for special purposes:
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Publication "California Freemason"
(see bel ow)
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association
Fees for charters and dispensatiohs
Revenue from investments:
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bonds
Interes t on bank accounts
Reilnbursement from Masonic Home s of
California for:
secretarial and other services
Endowment Board expense
Sale of supplies held for resale
Less, purchases of supplies for resale
PUblication "California Freemason":
Per capita from Lodges (see above)
Subscription revenue
Transfer from reserve for "California
Freemasqn" (Note 4)
Less, publishing expenditures (Note 5)
Net revenue (expense)
Sundry revenue
Total revenue
Expense:
Admini strative and office expense,
Schedule 3
General expen s e, Schedule 4
Appropriations, Schedule 5
Net revenue, before gain on
securities sales
Net gain on sales of securitiee

.!.2il

ill.?.

$1,246,028

$1, 068, 336

539,083
297 . 025

421,051
297 ,433

60, 273
6,205
902,586
343,442
287

6,189
724,673
343,663
395

12 ,663
22,570
7 207
42,440

12,456
23,182
5 1 206
40,844

24 ,000
18,925
42,925
32,176
27 775
4 401

24,000
14 172
38, 172
35,562
18,257
17,305

60,273
1,128

11,810

4,000
65,401
89 , 996
(24, 595)
1,620

35,945
47,755
59,592
(ll, 837 )
309

410,520

428,851

128,825
151, 746
102,962
383,533

127. 419
152 . 866
108,704
388,989

26,987
10,267

39 , 862
885

$
~216~!
Net revenue, Exhibit A
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial atateroents.

$

~QI 7:17

311

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

GRAND LODGE , F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page l

COMM.ON STOCK

Face Value

100,000
50,000
20,000
10,000
5 ,000
4,600
70,000
50,000
40,000
25,000
230,000
500

cost
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Equipment
Trust, 4-1/8%, 1968
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company Equ i pment
Trust , 4-1/ 4%, 1 968
Chicago , Bu rlington & Quincy Railroad
Equipment Trust, 3-7/8%, 1971
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Equipment
Trust, 4%, 1971
Norfolk & We stern Railway Equ ipment Trust,
3-7/8%. 1972
Norfolk & Wes tern Railway Equ ipment Trust,
4%, 1970
Virginian Railway, Income Debe nture,
6%. 2008
Federal Home Loan Bank, Consolidated No tes,
4-1/8%, 1966
Federal Home Loan Bank, Conso l idated Note s,
5.55%. 1967
United States Tre asury Bonds, 2-1/ 2%, 1972
United States Treasury Bonds, 3-1/ 2% 1990
United States Treasury Bonds, 4%, l9G9
Wells Fa rgo Bank Convertible Capital Notes,
3-1/4%, 1989
Total bonds

s 19,933
100,209
49 , 408

9, 872
5,000
5,129
70,085
49,945
37,991
25,6 88
230, 072
500
$623.832

~

Continental Oil, 2%
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/8%
Owens-Illinois Glass, 4%
S ignal Oi l and Gas, 2.4%
Union Oil of California, 2.5%
T otal convertible preferred stock

Shares
105
112
100
100
660
100
430

20,000

CONVERTIBLE
PREFERRED STOCK

100
100
100
100
400

SCHEDULE l
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

BONDS

$ 20,000

315

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$

6, 072
10,352
11,450
6 ,472
26,965

$ 61, 311

544
110
500
200
210
733
102
219
300
100
200
371
200
100
400
204
315
175
300

All ied chemical Corporation
Bank o f America N.T. & S .A.
Bend ix corporation
CIT F inancial Corporation
Columbia Gas Syste m, Inc.
Commercial Credit Company
Consolid ated Edison Company of New York,
Inc.
Crocker-citizens National Bank
crown Zellerbach Corporation
Duquesne Light Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
F und American Companies
General Public Utilit ies Corporation
Gulf Oil Corporation
Interstate Power Company
Irving Trust Company of New York
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company
Mobil Oil Corporati on
Northern States Power Company of Minnesot a
Ohio Ed i son Company
J. c. Penney Company, In c.
Pennsylvania Power & Light Company
Tennec o, Inc.
Union Electric Company
Wells Fargo Bank
wes~ern Bancorporation

$

3,687
5,863
5 , 720
4,077
13,562
3,989
13,151
6,805
5,519
9,948
5,440
5,144
13, 998
3 ,888
5,737
12,833
9,000
4,857
4,074
4,417
4, 742
14, 288
4,673
9,005
7, 747
10,961

Total common stock

$193.125

Total inv estmen ts

$878 ,268

316

3'17

GRAND LODGE OP C ALIPORNJ A

PROC EEDINGS OP THE:

GRAND LODGE, F. •A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

"'

i

SCHEDULE J

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

u
II)

..
....

c: Ill

...

0 ..... :

0

•.... c:: c:
.. .. 0

"0.,

CJ •"'4 E
"
•"'4 ...

s8 "' . "'

...... CJ
"'Cl

.c:> u ..

;;

....

N

0
ID

Salarie•

.....

..

0

.c
.....

CJ

"'"'...

.,.. ...."
.., ..."'

....

"'c:

·""4.
r:: 11 .... 0""

.. o oe o"'

J..)

r::

.s::

CQ
H ..

IX

0

u

rn

.. CJ

·"'4

., ;i:

...

:c

u"'

.. c
0"
r:: r::
. ...
1:11 ....

c
......
:>..r::

..

r:: ..

N

"',.,

Q.'U

Eo

0
CJ"'
CJ ..

f; ..

z 0

"'.,

0"'

u

3,000

3,000

outside clerical services

......"

!:; ..

3,000
250

889

88 9

C: "'

r::

:z."'..
0
H !>.

18,000

Grand Treasure r

..

$1, 642

18,000

''""

IX

Increase
(Decrease )

18,000

.,.., E

.... c
r:: QJ

.!2.§2.
$ 84,292

....
CJ

1966
$ 85,934

Audit

.......
"'

~
$ 93,000

....

..

Actual
Budget

Grand Lodge officea. Temple
operation , and maintena nce

'tl

.....)

Ul ..

-. .

.....

.

r
.,.

....,

.....
0

Q.

Postage and express

1,941

5,500

5,815

3,874

Telephon e and telegraph

4,500

4,826

4,198

628

Payroll taxes

6,900

3,590

5,324

(1,734)

Investme nt counsel

500

500

500

Retireme nt plan for
employee s of1
Grand Lodge
Agencies

4,000
3. 500

J, 196
1,241

3,645
3,180

Medical plan

2,400

1 ,22 8

1,311

(83)

95

___l.il)

$121,419

$L406

Payroll service
141,550

Addition al appropri ation
authori~ed by Grand Master

$128,825

1,530
$143, 080

The accompan ying notes are an integral
part of the financia l statemen ts.

151
(1,933)

319

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

318

PROCEEDING S OF THE
SCHEDULE 4

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CJl.LIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 5

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
APPROPRIATIONS
For the years ended June 30 , 1966 and 1965

GENERAL EXPENSE

For the years ended June JO, 1966 and 1965
Actual
Budget
~

Actual
1966

.!1.§1

Increase
(Decrease)

$ 15,000
5,000
10,000

$ 14,967
4. 123
9,514

$ 12,153
3,793
8,254

$ 2 ,814
330
1,260

850

850

850

12,600
6,000
37,000
27,000

12.600
6,000
36,713
25,000

12,600
6,000
37,405
24. 245

600

600

600

2,500

2,517

3,330

(813)

15,000
900
4,500
5,000

13,980
900
4,497
6, 108

14 .108
900
4,507
5,882

( 128)

10,000
1,200
900

11 ,82 4
925
628

11, 638
3. 292
2,689

186
(2,367)
(2,061)

620

_JgQ)

Budget
~
Annual communicatio n
conferences
Grand Lodge officers' travel
Grand Organist and Grand
Tiler
Grand Master's travel,
secr e tarial, and sundry
Investment counsel for Lodges
Representati ves ' mileage
Printing
Ritualistic:
Grand Lecturer
Inspectors' aprons and
stat ionery
Ritua l Commi ttee and
inspectors' conference
a nd travel
Retirement pay
Veteran buttons
supplies and miscellaneou s
Insurance:
worlc;nen's compensation
for Lodges
Fidelity and miscellaneou s
Grand Lodge regal i a
Reimburse Ira w. Coburn
for excess expense a s
Grand Mas ter

154,050
Additional appropria tion
autho rized by Grand Master

$151,746

$152,866

2,949
$156,999

(692)
755

( 10)
226

$ .l..!..i.ll.2)

Activities Committee
Board of Control
Charters Committee
Columbi a Temple Committee
(rent income netted)
Constitution al Observance Corrmittee
Commi ssion on Masonic Practices
De Mcl ay Committee
Jurisprudenc: e
Employment Bureaus
Endowment Board
Hi story Commit tee
Committee on Masonic Educat ion
Lodge Financing Co!T'll\ittee
Memori a l Temple - campaign
Committee on Public Schools
Commi t tee on Comrne rc:ialism
Sojourners Committee
Un i versity Clubhouses :
Berkeley
Los Angeles
Code Commission
Investment Committee
Relief Fund - Grand Master
Committee on Mason i c Ceme ter i es
Committee o n Masonic Information
Library Commission
Committee on Old Masonic Hall,
Los Angeles (rent income netted)
Special Corrmission - Grand Master
Miscellaneou s
Capital-type i tems:
Columbia Temple special i t ems
Grand Lodge office alterations
and painting
Displ ay c abinets
Additional appropriatio ns
authorized by Grand Master

$

1966

4,000 $
1, 800
750

3,497 $
1,241
280

2 ,810
1,606
183

1,100
1, 500

553
1, 104

750

302
184
13,576
18, 925
167
2,147
2,249
BOB
1,872
740
125

516
1,320
507
269

13, 509
17,000
200
'2,00 0
3,000
1 ,200
2,500
750
1,000

Increa"e
[Decrease)
$

687
( 36 5 )
97

2, 063
2,058
l, 754
1,334
535
2, 847

37
(216)
(50 7)
33
18 4
67
4,753
167
84
191
(946)
538
205
( 2 . 722)

13,509
14,172

(220)

21 , 130
23, 500
150
500
4,100
4, 595
1,500
1,250

21.130
23,500

21. 350
24 ,485

(985)

136
3,549
2, 137
898
1, 137

261
2,032
1 , 344
784
1,186

(125)
1,517
79 3
114
(49)

l ,000

BOB

200

713
152
96

108,984

101 .218

97 , 733

(95)
152
~
3,485

2. 645

1,744

l , 744
(5, 52 1)

5,521
5 1 450

12.....ilQ)

111,629 $,j,Q'' 21i~ $1QB 1 7Q4

$~)

2,475
s•J.~1~Q!

The a ccompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements .
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

1965

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

320

GRANO LODGE, F. & A. H. OP CALIFOR.NI1.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1966

321

ANNU AL AUDI T OF RETU RNS
LYBRAND. Ross BRos.r.., ~!oxToOMERY
CCAT l,.I CD PUBLIC ACC O U NTANTS

l.

ONE

Basis of Accoun ting:

of
The financi al stateme nts are stated on the cash basis
at the time of
accoun ting. Transac tions general ly are r ecordedng
expense bills .
the receipt or payment of c ash. current operati
unpaid were of a nominal amount.
2.

Insuran ce Premium s Advance d for Lodges:

Grand
C01T1prehensive liabili ty insuran ce is purchas ed byise covered
otherw
Ledge on a three-y ear basis to cover the Lodges not
Lodges
covered
the
by such insuran ce. Premium s are col l ected from
on an annual premium basis.
4.

Reserve for "Califo rnia Freemas on":

"Califo rn i a
The 1964 Commun ication autho rized d istribu tion of
Since the publica tion
Freemas on" t o all members at Grand Lodge expense . policy, the Reserve
is now being distrib uted in accorda nce with this The elimina tion of
for "Califo rnia Freemas on" has been elimina ted. fiscal year. The
this Reserve occu rred in this year and the prior
income to partia lly
amount of wr ite-off each year has been taken into
o ffset increas ed publish ing expend itures.
Publish ing Exl>@n ditures for "Califo rnia Freemas on":
1966
These "expend i tu res during the year ended June 30, in
to be used
include d payment s for paper stock and other 1te ms to June 30, 1966,
publish ing two issues of the magazin e subsequ ent
ed these advance
The Califor nia Freemas on Publica tion Board has estimatpaymen ts are
paymen ts to be approxi mately $13,000 ; however , these
nying financi al
include d in current year's expend itures in the accompa ing.
stateme nts in conform ity with the cash basis of account
5.

STRCCT

YU"'ON 1-•3U

GooPZRS &. tY1nwm

Furnitu re and F i xture s:

capita liGrand Lodge at the 1957 Communi cati on approve d the
nt after that
zation of amounts expende d for f urnish ings and30,equipme
1966 and 1965 amounte d
date . Additio ns during the years ended June
of this asset is not
iation
Deprec
ively.
respect
$1.050,
and
$4,926
to
ts .
being taken i nto a ccount in the financi al statemen
3.

BUSH

SAN FRANCISC O •

The Hos t Worshi pful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepte d Masons of the
State of Califor nia,
1111 Califor nia Street,
San Francis co. Califor nia 94108.
we have examine d the Stateme nt of 1966 Annual Returns
M. OF CALIFORNIA,
of the constit uent Lodges of GRAND LODGE, F. & A.
Lodge in
Grand
due
ts
paymen
the
on
and
reporti ng on member ship
Ordinan ces
and
ution
Constit
the
of
ons
provisi
the
with
acc ordance
col1'lllu nication .
and the action taken by Gra nd Lodge a t the 1965 annual
ccepted
a
ly
our examin ation was made in accorda nce with general
of the
tests
such
luded
inc
a uditing standar ds, and accordi ngly
we conas
res
procedu
g
auditin
other
account ing records and such
.
stances
sidered necessa ry in the circum
fairly
In our opinion the acCOITlpanying stateme nt present s
uent
Constit
the
of
the eu1m1a rization of the 1966 Annual Returns
ng on
Lodges of Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. of Califor nia, reporti
member ship and on paymen ts. due Grand Lodge.

August 25, 1966

322

323

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

MASON IC HOMES AUDIT

STATEMENT OF 1966 ANNUAL RETURNS
For lhe year ended June 30, 1966

LYERAND, Ross BRos.c... MmtroOMERY
C~RTIF"IEC P U BLIC ACCOUNTANT S

ON&

Number of Members:
Ma ster Masons in good standing
Le ss :
Members o f Research Lodges
Members for whom per capita waived
(dues remitted)

243,927

Masonic Homes of California :
Per capita
Contributi ons of 6,203
initiates and affiliates
California Masonic Memorial
Temple:
Per capita
Contributi ons of 5,419
initiates
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial
contributi ons of 5,41 9
initiates

e. LYllllillD

.. llll lHCl~A\. CITll'S o.- f'M C

1-.dll

3.769

'-ill· 158

$

Period When
Received
7-1-66
Year
through
Ended
8-24- 66

6-30- 66

$

324.213
60,040
15,680

324,213
60,040
l~,680

399.933

399.933

1.50

360,237

360,237

25.00

155,075

SJ.J~, ;iso

515.312

lJ5,3SO

To the Trustees of Masonic
Homes of Californi a,
1111 California Street.
San Franc isco, California 94108.
We examined the sta tement of assets, liabi lities, reserves,
o f MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA, a California nonbalances
and fund
profit corporatio n, as of June 30, 1966, and the related statement
of General Fund revenue received and expenses disbursed for the ye ar
ended. Our examinatio n was made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, and according ly included such tests of
the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we
considered nefessary in the circumstan ces. We previously examined
and reported upon the financial statements for the year ended June

~1 e n

19' 222
379' 962

3 0, 1965.
240,158

l.00

240,158

9 . 00

48' 271

~' '7 ~2

ji,OJ2

2!1f!' 22 9

42,n2

,4§,197

2.n2

4,71!l

fiZl

'c:i. ::i:lJ

$lfj' ,fl JC

$l .C"~'Z!iJ

-

Total

YU KON 1 ~•.J.J>

C.00P'.llR9

355

Total
per 1966
Annual
Returns

Grand Lodge:
Per capita:
Genera l support and
$ l.35
activities
.25
California Freemason
l.00
Degrees conferred - 1 5,680

ST .. ££T

OP'PIC:C• IN THI'

Members subject to per capita
Payments due Grand Lodge:

BUSH

SAN F'AAHCISCO 4

1.00

$l,

In our opinion, the accompany ing financial statements
present fairly the assets, liabi lities, reserves, and f und balances
of Mason ic Home s of California at June 30, 1966 a nd 1 965, arising
primarily from cash tra nsactio ns, and the revenue received and
expense disbursed by it and the changes in reserves and in f und
balances during the years then ended, on a consisten t ba sis.

September 8, 1966

324

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

325

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, RESERVES, AND FUND BALANCES
June 30, 1966 and 1965
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS'
- Statement of assets, liabilities, re•erves,
and fund balances

Exhibit B - General Fund Balance
Exhibit c - Statement of General Fund revenue received
and expense disbursed
. Exhibit D - Property Fund
Exhibit E - Reserves for special purposes
Exhibit F - Endowment and trust funds
Exhibit G - Permanent Endowment Fund
Exhibit H - John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
Exhibit I
Scholarship Fund
Exhibit J - George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund
Harriet
c. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
Exhibit K
Exhibit L - C. N. Flint Trust Fund
Exhibit M - Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
Exhibit N - Residents' accounts
Exhibit 0 - Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund
Exhibit p - The Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund
Schedule l - Investments
(Consolidated schedule of
investments, other than
investments of the
Permanent Endowment Fund)
Schedule 2
Investments - Permanent Endowment Fund
Schedule 3 - Detail of reserves for special purposes
Schedule 4 - Deta il of expenses
'l'wo Pages - Notes to financial statements

-

General Fund and Reserves:
Cash
Investments (a t book value)
Schedu le l (Note 2):
Bonds (market value $2.093,330
and $1.501,987)
Convertible preferred stock (market
value $276,138 and $38, 550)
Common stock (market value $1,771. 687
and $1,881 ,645)
Total (market value $4,141,155
and $3,422,1?2)
Notes receivable {No te 3)
Other assets (Note 4)
Total assets - General Fund
and Reserves
Pro~rty Fund - land, buildings, and
equipmen t, Exhibit D (Note 1)
Endowment and trust funds - principally
cash and secu rities, Exhibit F

.122.2.

l..2.2.2.

A S S E T S:
Exhibit A

$

592 729
!

$

322.912

2,223,496

1,558,333

302 , 272

42,930

l,~01J,:rn'

i,~0,,;1 67

4,049 , 550

J,lOJ,5~0

189.626
6,777

1J8,299
J,258

4,838,682

3 ,567,999

6,905,683

6,885,6 39

19.926,145

17,796,,49

$31 , 670,510

$28.249.887

LIABILITIES , RESERVES,
AND FUND BALANCES:
General Fund and Reserves:
Accrued e xpenses
·Reserves for special purposes,
Exhibit E (Note 5)
General Fund balance, Exhibit B
Property Fund balance, Exhibit D
Endowme nt and trust fu nd balances,
Exhibit F

$

78,829

$

61, 655

3,969,527

2,797 , 345

:Z20,JZfi
4,838,682
6,905,683

:ZQ8,222
3,567,999
6,885,639

19' 2:22' l~~

17,:Z2fi,;142

$31.670,510

$28,249 . 887

The accompanying notes are an integral
part o f the financial statements.

326

327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORN IA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND BALANCE
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

made directly to the General Fund
during the year:
Transfers from reserves for special
. purposes, Schedule 3:
For expenses of the Homes, from:
Reserves for Additions and
Replacements
Covina Reserve
Decoto Reserve
Unappropriated Reserve
Covina Entertainment Reserve
Decoto Entertainment Reserve
From Unappropriated Reserve - an
amount equivalent to the pensions
assigned by residents of the
Decato Home in the current year
Transfer prior year income from:
Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund,
Exhibit 0
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund,
Exhibit P
Net gain on sales of securities

Less, excess of expenses over revenue
for the year, Exhibit C
Ne t increas e (de cre ase )
during the ye a r
.Balance, beginning of yea r
Balance, end o f ye ar, Exhibit A

STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND REVENUE RECEIVED
AND EXPENSE DI SBURSED
For the yea r s ended June 30, 1 96 6 and 1 965

Rev enue r e ceived from:
Gr and Lodge , F . & A. M. , pe r ann ual
return s:
Membersh ip a t $1.50 a n d $1 pe r capita
Contributions o f i n itiates and
affilia te s at $25 ea c h

~dditions

EXHIBI T C

$

$
11,702
63,376
4,656
2,020

291,155

959
83,508
11,554
69,980
5,392
1,844

258,936

2,566
7,336
7 2 ' 94·6
534, 144

510.177

1511 ,817

592, !,l24

77' 924

Endo wment and trust funds ' income:
P e rma nent Endowme nt Fund, Exhibit G
J ohn a n d Le na Lu c k e n bach Fund,
Exhibit H
Florence Katherine Bu rt Tr u s t F und,
Exhibit o
Edmund Clement At k in s on Fun d,
Exhib it P

81. 327

(89' 647)
72!.l .!21!i

$7 90,3 26

~70 8 .999

54 0 ,3 38
J,, 255
5J9 ,08 J
6 68 ,834

5 99 , 39 3

3 , 279

2,8 52

11 , 746
10,107
693 ,9 66

6 0 2 , 245

20, 584
1 0,088
56, 26 6
59,550
14 6, 488

1 9,374
8 ,995
58,882
41, 974
1 29 , 222

1 7 ,2 4 1
24,Q27
4 1 , J3!l
lJ,0 52

1 7 , 387
2 5 , J B4
4 2 I 771
!l ,058

Total reve nue

1, 433 ,927

1, 203,35 0

Expense, Sc h edu l e 4 ,
Operation o f Maso n i c Homes :
Decoto Home
Covin a Home
Ou tside r e l i ef o f Ma s onic Home s

l, 35 1, 750
387 ' 772
~1. 45!;!

1, 307 ,2 23
38 2,67 9
l2, 2 0 4

l , 74 8' 988

l JZ ,Z 56

1.7 02 , 806
1 00' I J28

l, !;!86 , 744

l.803,124

lnves tments:
In t erest on:
Ban k accounts a n d ce r tificates
of deposit
No tes re c eivable
Bon ds
Dividends o n stock s
Payments through Lodges f or:
Deca to residents
Covina residents

To tal expe ns e of h omes a n d r e lief
Admin i s t r at ive a nd g ene r al
To t al expen s e
Exce ss o f e xpe nse ove r r e v e nu e,
Exhibit B
The accomp anying notes a r e an integral
part o f the f inanci a l stateme nt s .

240 ' 9 95
1 8 1 ,675
422 , 67 0
l 61 9
421 ,05 1

Ot her i n c ome

:ZO!l. 222

$

;ps, 10 0

Less , adj us tmen t s for previ ous years

$ 70,387

361 ,630

$

45 2 ,81 7

The a c c ompa n ying no te s are an in t egral
p a r t of th e fin a nc i a l sta t e me n ts .

$

599 ,024

328

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT D

PROPERTY FUND
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
June 30, 1966 and 1965
Schedule 3,
Page

Land, buildings, and equipment
(Note 1):
Decoto Home
Covina Home
San Francisco office

$5,819,622
l,066,540
19.52l

$5,801,632
l. 065. 097
18.910

Total assets

$6.905.683

$6.885.639

l
2
3
4
5
5

l2il.

$

17,991

$

100,000
211,203
11,100
388,903

2,355

45,358

6ll
20. 957

l4,§l6
448,877

9ll
20,044
!1.f!S:i,6J9

448. 877
6,~J§,762

$§,2Q~.~!lJ

$§ .!l!l~ '§J2

Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic
Homes of California , Exhibit G
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, Exhibit H
George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarsh ip Fund, Exhibit I
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment
Fun d , Exhibit J
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity
Fund, Exhibit K
c. N. Flint Trust Fund, Exhibit L
Students' Loan and Scholarsh ip Fund,
Exhibit M
Residents ' Accounts, Exhibit N
Florence Kather ine Burt Trust Fund ,
Exhibit 0
The Edmund Clement Atkinso n Fund,
Exhibit P
Total, Exhibit A

The accompany ing notes are an integral
part of the financial statement s.

~

32.3 , 119
1,434,035
1. 215. 663
984. 509
5,135
7,06§

$

$3,969 . 527

$2 . 797,345

$

ENDCMMENT AND TRUST FUNDS
June 30, 1966 and 1965

Covina Home, from:
Covina Reserve (Big Bear Camp
leasehold improveme nts)
San Francisco office, from:
Reserve for Additions and
Replaceme nts (office equipment)

Balance, end of year, Exhibit A

Reserve for Additions and
Replaceme nts
Covina Reserve
Decoto Reserve
Unappropr iated Reserve
Covina Entertainm ent Reserve
Decoto Entertainm ent Reserve
Total, Exhibit A

FUND BALANCE:

Lees retirement at Covina Home
(office equipment)
Net additions during year
Balance, beginning of year

EXHIBIT E

RBS~RVES

A S S E T S:

Additions during year, to:
Decoto Home, from:
Reserve for Additions and
Replaceme nts (1966 constructi on of fence and
improveme nts to water system)
Decoto Reserve
c. N. Flint Trust Fund

329

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

173,031
1. 283 ,088
467,848
864,476
3,103
5,z~9

EXHIBIT F

$18,451 ,5 42
79 ,7 59

$16.786,59 9
80,487

41.537

41, 537

19,320

20,379

8,969
283,803

9,544
280,372

293,019
65,724

22,698
64,465

395 , 022

222,264

2az.i:iQ

2§Z,20i

$19,926,14 5

$17 , 796,249

The accompany ing note• are an integral
part of the financial statement •.

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

331

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

EXHI8IT G

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT H

JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND
The principal is restricted by Ordinances of Grand Lodge so that no
portion thereof shall be expended for any purpose, and the income
therefrom shall be used only for the maintenance and general operation of the Masonic Homes.

The principal, res t ricted by the terms of the Will, is to be kept
intact and th e income used only for the benefit of the care of orph a ns
o r the aged in . Mason i c Homes of Southern California.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965
A S S E T S:
Savings accounts and certificates
of deposit
Investments (at book value), Schedule 2
(Note 2):
Bonds (market value $9,610,079
and $6,986,140)
Convertible preferred stock (market
value $678,480 and $180,387)
Common stock (market value $6,505,330
and $8.493,092)
Total (market va l ue $16,793,889
and $15,659,619)
Notes receivable (Note 3)
Other assets (Note 4)
Total assets

$

458,097

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 a nd 1965

1965

1966

$ 1. 336. 428

A S S E T S:

1966

1965

$...L..lli

$11. 01 3

54,680

44, 690

72, 028

69 . 474

Balance, beginning of year

$80,487

$81,022

Less , loss on sale o f securi ties

~

___21§.

$~

$~

Savings account
10,277,599

7,270,493

713. 551

200,664

Bonds (market value $48,9 00 and $41,345)

6,988,231

7' 949' 027

Common stock (mark et valu e $17,075 and
$26,313)

17,979,380
14,052
13

15,42Q,184

$18,451,542

$16,786,599

$16.786,599
904,439

$15,161,522
846,896

29,97~

14

Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:

Total (market value $65,975
and $67,658)
Total assets

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Contributions made through Lodges
Progress payments on pledges unallocated:
At beginning of year (deduct)
At end of year
Bequests
Net gain on sales of securities
Contributions from organizations
and individuals
Memorials
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

(62.436)
39,072
203,335
536,679

(48,015)
62,436
453,029
292,025

7,788
36 067

l~,193

$18 , 451,542

$lji! ,7 86,599

FUND BALANCE:

Balancer end of year, Exhibi t F

5,513
STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June . 30, 1966 and 1965

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June JO, 1966 and 1965

1.2.2..§.
Interest on bank accounts and
certificates of deposit
$
45,605
311, 087
Interest on bonds
310,958
Dividends on stocks
1,134
Interest on notes receivable
Net income from real estate
50
Revenue transferred to General
668,834
Fund income, Exhibit C
$~_.......,.
..........,
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

$

$

1966

1 965 ·

ll§.2.

Interest received

$ 2,266

$ 1 , 71 0

8,507
340,995
248,346
1.520
25

Dividends on stocks

~

~

$~

$~

599,393

Revenue transferred to General
Fund income, Exhibit C

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the fina n cial statements.

332

PROCEP:DINGS OP THE

333

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT I
MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

GEORGE P. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUND
'l'he principal is held in truat as a scholarship fund for the benefit
of the Covina Home residents, $25.000 of which may be loaned for this
purpose. Income of this fund is restricted and may be used only for
providing scholarships.

llli.

1965

$....b.fil

$....b.1!.£

A S S E T S1

I nve stments (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $21,606 and $21,851)
Co111111on stock (market value $18,375 and
$21,275)
Total (market va lue $39,981
and $43,126)
Total assets

22,101

22,101

17 , 924

17 ,92 4

~

~

Sllilli $~

Si!..:.m $~

~

l..2.22

$_Lill

$.....L.llQ

10 , 000

10,000

~

9,1 09

~

1.2...lfil.

$~

$~

$20,379

$20,379

Investments (at book value ), Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $8,200 and
$8,844)
Common a tock (market value $5,425 and
$9,462)
Total (market value $13,625
and $18:306)
Total assets

1966
$

Balance, be9inning of year
Less, loss on sale of securities
Balance: end of year, Exh i bit F

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

Interest received

A S 5 E T 5:
Savin9a account

FUND BALANCE:

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, be9inning and end of year, Exhibit P

The principal, subject to the proviaion included in the Will of the
testator , shall be kept intact and only the income therefrom shall
be used for the benefit of the Decoto Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965

STATEMENT OP ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965

Savin9s account

EXHIBIT J

GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. PERINE
ENDOWMENT FUND

952

1965
$

....l.....Q.li

---

$~

$~

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
Fo r the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

893

Dividends on stocks
Revenue transferred to Students' Loan
and Scholarship Fund, Exhibit M

I nterest received
Dividends on stocks
Revenue transferred to Decoto
Reserve, pa9e 3 of Schedule 3

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

The accompanyin9 notes are an i nte9ra l
part of the financial statements.

$

466

$

350

334

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT K

HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT
ANNUITY FUND

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND DALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965
ASSET S:
$2,322

$ 2,897

Investmen ts (at book value}, Schedule l:
Common stock (market value $8,325)
and $9,200)
Total assets

$9,544

$10,132

Tr.e accompany ing notes are an integral
part of the financial statement s.

A S S E T S:

1li9.

Savings account
Investmen ts (at book value), Schedule l:
Bonds (market value $207,516 and
$ 215. 741)
Convertibl e preferred s tock (market
value $14,463 and $9,450)
Common stock (market value $51,214
and $64,BBB )
Total (market value $273,193
and $290,079)

$

8.096

ll22.
$

5.895

222,532

222,532

17,497

11,451

35,678

40,494

~Z!.\,7QZ

274,!12Z

$261.803

$28 0.]72

Balance, beginning of year
Net gain on sales of se c urities

$280,372
3,431

$330,179
27. fl2J
358,072

Les s, appropriat ion for furn i ture and
equipment for Charles Albert Adams
Hall at Decato

STATEMENT OF ANN~ ITIES PAID AND REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1966 ar,d 1965

Excess of annuities over revenue

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965

FUND DALANCE:

Balance, e n d of year, Exhibit F

Annuities paid as required by the agreement
Less, revenue:
Interest rec eived
Dividends on stocks

EXHIBIT L

The principal consists of gifts fr om c. N. Flint. The income from the
fund has been designated by the tru stees for use at the Decato Home .

Total assecs

FUND DALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Less, excess of annuities over revenue,
see below

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
C. N . FLINT TRUST FUND

This fund, in the origina l amount of $30,000, is sub j ect to a contract
with the donor providing for the payment of certain life a nnuities out
of the prin cipal and income thereof. Under the terms of the contract,
only principal of the fund expended in payment of the annui ti es is to
be later restored ou t of income to the fun d when the annuit i es no
longer a bsorb the entire income. After restoratio n of the p rincipal
to the original sum of $30,000, the income from the fund is to be used
for the benefit of the residents of the Covina Home.

Savings account

335

Balance, end of year, Exh ibit F

llil

1965

$1,050

$J_,_Q2.Q

111

124

___lM
_ill

_l.W.
~

$~

$~

27,700
$,flJ I flCJ

$'flC,J2'

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended J u ne 30, 1 966 and 1965
~

.!..2il.
Interest received
Dividends on stocks
Revenue trans f erred to Decato
Reserve, page 3 of Schedule 3

$

8,867
2 ,452

$ l1 I J'g

The accompanyi ng notes are an integral
pare of the financial statements .

$

B, 727

3,21J
$ ll.~~g

336

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT M

RESIDENTS

The principal arise• from gifta. The income of the fund ia deaignated
by the truatees for uae for student loan and acholarahip purpose•.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965
A S S E T S:

llil

1..2.li

Saving• account
Investments (at book value), Schedule l:
Bonds (market value $48,644 and
$4,953)
Convertible preferred stock (market
value $147,712)
Common stock (market value $31,164
and $10,442)

$ 45.466

$.-1......2..2.!

53,200

4,973

1 55,629
38.724

ll.....l..U

:i!U.~~J

ll..lQQ

$293.019

$~

Total (market value $227,520
and $15,395)

Balance, e nd of }'l!ar, Exhibit F

1

ACCOUNTS

Thia f und consists of amounts held in trust for the resident• of the
Covina and Decoto Homes.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965
A S S E T S:

llil

1..2.§.2.

Cash
Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bonda (market value $23,984 and
$24,567)
Common stock (market value $5,488
and $6,300)
Total (market value $29,472 and
$30,867)

$~

$.J.L.Ql.l

24,901

24,901

-L.2.41.

....L2.il

1Q.d.4Z.

~

$~

$~

$~

$~

Total assets

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of }'l!ar
Bequests
Gain (loss) on sale of aecurities
Net revenue, see below

EXHIBIT N

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

Total aasets

337

GRAND LODGE OP CAL!PORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

$ 22,698
250,607
9,955
2.z52

$22,252

$'::.!J,Cl::.!

$~

(3)
____jfi

FUND BALANCE:
Residents' account balances, Exhibit F

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1966 a nd 1965

STATEMENT OF NET REVENUE
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

Interest received
Dividends on stocks

$

Interest received
Dividends on atocka
Gain on aale of aecurities
Revenue transferred to Decoto
Reaerve , page 3 of Schedule 3

3, 778

5 .422
9,200

George F. Brigham and Laura. E. Bri:3ham
Scholarship Fund income, Exhibit I
Gift• from individuals a nd organizations
Total revenue received
Leas, loan• for educational purposes
Net revenue

l.2ll

$

The accompanying n otes are an integral
part of the financial statement•.

1,842
387
11,429
L 670

J....§J.Q

::.! ' 759

$~

1,740
---3..IU.
),059

The accompanying notes are a n integral
part of the financial atatementa.

$ 2,006
344

$ 1,363
324

-2....lil

_..u.a

338

P ROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
FLORENCE l<ATHERINE BURT TRUST FUND

EXHIBIT O

The principal, subject to the provision in the Will of the testat or,
shall be used f or renovating present premises or making perman e nt
a dditions to the Mason ic Homes within a period o f ten years from
J anuary 5, 1965, the date of the dec ree of distribution. one -third
of the principal is designated for the Covina Home and two-thirds
for the Decato Home.

1966

A S S E T S:

Note s receivable (Note 3)
Real estate
Total assets
FUND BALANCE:
Balance , beginning of year
Beque st of Florence K. Burt
Excess of proceeds of real esta t e ove r nominal
value assigned when bequest was received
Gain (loss) on sale of securities
Income from inve s tments
Less , trans fer prior year income to General
Fund balan c e, Exhibi t B
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

3, 040

$

1965
2.9 88

$

41,904

2.000

57,157
199, 73 2

217,272

298,793

219, 272

93,189
$395,022

$222,264
104

4
$ 222, 264

$219' 757

173,194
2 ,026
p,566)
$ 395 ,022

(59)
2,566

$222,264

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965
~

1966
Interest r eceived
Dividends o n stocks
Income from real estate , net
Reven ue transferred to General Fund
balance in following year
Revenue transferred to General Fund
income, Exhibit C

339

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
THE EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON FUND

EXHIBIT P

The principa l, subject to th e provi s i on in th e Wil l o f the testator ,
s ha ll be used to contribute t o the comfort, convenience, a nd enjoymen t
of the re sidents of the Decato Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965
A S S E T S:

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 19 66 a nd 1965

cash
Investments (at book value), Sch edule l:
Bonds (market value $40,990 and $2,080)
Convertible preferred stock (market value
$60, 700)
common stock {market value $182,593 and
$205, 26 7)
Total (market value $284,283 and
$207,347)

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFORNIA

$ 3,017
7 ,990
_222.

The accompanying notes are a n integ ral
part of the f i nancial statemen ts.

$

256
879
1,431

$~

ca sh
Inv es tments (at book v alue), Sched ul e l :
Bond s (market va lue $69,683 and $27,415)
Convertible preferred stock ( market value
$38,27 5 and $29,875)
common stock (market va l ue $124,547 and
$177,603 )
Total (market value $232,505 and
$23 4 ,893)
Note s receivable (Note 3)
Real estate
T otal a sse t s
FUND BALANCE:
Ba l ance. beginning of year
Bequest of Edmund Mansfi eld Atkinson
Exce ss of proceeds of real estate over nomin a l
value a ssigned whe n bequest was received
Gain on sale o f c ommon stock
other
I ncome from investments, see below
Les s , t ransfer pricrr yea r i ncome to Gen eral
Fund ba lance, Exhibit B
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

1966

1965

$ 27,178

$ 28,719

71,760

26,875

39 , 388

32. 603

143,424

179, 706

254,572

239,184

5,7 00
2
$287,450

$2 67 ,904
13, 133
l3. 7 49

p ,336)
$28 7,450

$~.

234,59 0
25 ,949
29
7,336

$267 ,9 04

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years e nded June 30, 1966 and 1965

Interest rece ived
Dividends on stocks
Income f rom real estate, net
Revenue transferr ed t o Gen eral Fund
balance in fo l lowing y e ar
Revenue transferred to General Fu nd
income , Exhibit c

1966

1965

$ 2,457
7.198

$ 2,783
4 ,45 0

___.1g

~

The accompanying notes a re an integral
part of the financial state me nts.

$~

340

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 1

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

341

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

(Consolidated schedu le of investments, other than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

(Consolidated schedul e o f investmen t s, o ther than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)
BONDS (Continued)

Face Value
$100, 000
55,000
30,000
15 . 000
7 5,000
25,000
205,000
30,000
10,000
15, 000
200, 000
20,000
20,000
10,000
27. 000
12.000
3,000
1,000
2,000
30, 000
20 ,000
100,000
25,000
25,000
10 , 000

Book Value
American Telephone a n d Telegraph co.,
5-1/8%, 4/ 1 / 0l
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company
Equipment Trust, 4-1/4%, 8 / 1 / 69
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company
Eq ui pment Trust, 4- 1 / 4%, 8/ 1 /69
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company
Equipment Trust , 4-1 / 4%, 8 / 1 / 69
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Equipment Trust, 3-7/8%, 6/1/70
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Equipment Tr us t, 3-7/8%, 6/1/70
Federal Home Lo an Bank, 4-1/8%. 8/15/66
Federal Home Loan Bank, 4-1/ 8%, 8 / 15 /66
Federal Home Loan Bank, 4-1/ 8%, 8 / 15/ 66
Federal Home Loan Bank, 4-1 / 8%. 8 / 15/ 66
Federal Home Loan Bank, 5.55%, 4 / 25/ 67
Feder a l Home Loan Bank, 5.55% . 4 / 25/ 67
Federa l Home Loan Bank, 5.55%, 4 / 25/67
Federal Home Loan Bank, 5.55% , 4 /2 5/67
Federal Land Bank s, 4%, 6/20/ 68
Federal Land Banks, 4%, 6/20/ 68
First National City Bank of New Yo rk,
4%. 7/ 1 / 90
First National City Bank o f New York,
4%, 7/1/90
First National City Bank of New York,
4%, 7/1/90
Great Northern Ry . co. Equipment Trust
No. 2, 4%, 6/1/68
Grea t Northern Ry. co. Equipment Tru st
No. 2, 4%, 6 / 1 /68
Gulf Mobile & Ohio R. R. co. Equipment
Trust, 4-1/8%, 8 / 1 / 68
Hunt Foods & Indus tries Incorporated,
convertible, 4-3 / 8%. 7/1/ 86
Hunt Fo ods & Industries Incorporated,
convertible , 4-3 / 8% , 7/1/ 86
Louisvi lle and Nashville R. R. Equipment
Trust , Ser ies EE, 4%, 3/ 15/ 71

$

100, 250
55,137
30, 075-F
15 , 037-L
74,440
24 ,811-F
2 05, 010
30, 042-P
10,017-B
15,025-R
199. 781
19,979-K
19,978-A
9,989-L
27, 192
12, 084-B

Face value
$ 1 0,000
30,000
30,000
10,000
5 0,000
100,000
100,000
25,000
25,000
20 ,000
1 5, 000
1 5,000

3 , 000
1 00,000
1,000-A
2,000-K

100 ,000

30, 134-F

25,000
10 . 000

20,089

5,000

100,106

5,000

23,320

3 5,000

23,320-S

60,000

1 0,000

30 ,000

Book Value
Louisville and Nashville R. R. Equipment
Tr us t , Series EE , 4%, 3/ 15 / 71
No rfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Trust,
Series J, 4%, 5/ 1 /70
Norfolk and Western Ry . Equipment Trust,
Series I, 3-7 /8%, 1 / 1 /7 2
No rfolk and weste rn Ry. Equipment Trust,
Se ries I, 3-7/ 8%, 1 / 1 / 72
Norfolk and western Ry. Equipment Trust,
Serie s J, 4%, 5 / 1 /7 0
Norfolk a nd Western Ry. Equipment Trust,
5-1/8%. 1/1/76
Nort he rn Pacifi c RY· Equipment Trust,
5% , 3/3/7 3
Pennsylvania R. R. co. Equipment Trust,
5-1/ 4%, 10/ l/75
Pennsylvani a R . R. co. Equipment Trust,
5-1/ 4%, 10/ 1 / 75
Pennsy lvani a R. R. co . Equipment Trust,
5-1 / 4%. 10/1/7 5
Seaboard Air Line R. R. Equipment Trust,
S eries W, 4%, 2/ 1 / 71
Seaboard Air Li ne R . R. Equipment Tru st,
series w. 4%, 2/1/71
seaboard Air Line R· R. Equipment Trust,
4-7 / 8%, 3/ 1 /76
seaboard Air Line R· R. Equipment Trust,
4-7 /8%, 3/ 1/7 5
Sinclair Oil c o rp., 4-3 / 8%, 12/ 1 / 86
southern Pacific R. R. Equipment Tru st
No . 19 , 3-7/ 8% , 1/1/71
s o uthern Pacifi c R. R . Equipment Trust,
4-1/ 4%, 4 / 1 /69
southern Pacific R. R. Equipment Trust,
4-1 /4%, 4/1/69
southern Pacifi c R. R. Equipment Trust,
4-1/ 4%, 4 / 1 / 69
southern Ry . company Equipment Trust,
Series AAA, 4-3/ 8%, 3/ 16/ 68
southern Ry. Company Equipment Trust,
Ser ies ZZ, 4%. 8/15/70

$

10,000-F
30,000-F
29,624
9,876-R
50,000
99,423
99. 708
24,907-A
24,907-s
19,925-K
14 , 951
14 , 949-F
98,641
98,395
25,875-A
9 , 888
4,973-L
4,973-s
34,814
60,420
30, 000

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 3

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

(Consolidated schedule of inves t ments, other than
investments of the Permanen t Endowment Fund)

BONDS (Continued)

$ 10,000
50, 000
320,000
25,000
200,000
4,250
191,000
12,000
15,000
10,000
12,700
1,6 00
2 ,800
5,000
10 ,000

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK (Continued)
Book Value

Southern Ry. Company Equipment Trust,
Series ZZ, 4%, 8/15/70
Texas and Pacific Ry. Company Equipment
Trust, Series V, 4-1/8%, 7/1/68
u. s. Tr easur y Bonds, 2-1/2%, 9/15/72
u. s . Treasury Bonds, 2-1 / 2%, 9/15/72
u. s. Treas ury Bonds, 4%, 2/15/69
u. s. Tr eas ury Bonds, 2-1/ 2% , 9/15/72
u . s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 2/15/90
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 2/ 15/90
u. s. Trea sury Bonds, 3-1 / 2%, 2/ 15/ 90
u . s. Tr e asury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 11/15/98
Vi rginian Ry . Company, 6%, B/l/ 08
We lls Fargo Bank, 3-1/ 4%. 9/ 15 / 89
Wells Fargo Bank, 3-1/ 4%, 9/15/89
Wheel ing Steel corp., 3-3/ 4%, 11/15/7 5
Whee li ng Stee l corp., 3-3/ 4%, 11/ 1 5/7 5
One bond - n ominal value
Total bonds

$

10, 000-F
50,054
313,755
24,297-·F
200,063
3,753
194 , 850
ll,453-F
14,384-L
10 , 000-P
14 ,031
l.605-F
2,800
5, 166-F
10, 296-L
l
2,724,573

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

900
500
300
500
100
500
4 00
100
1 00
1,900
300
800

Ameri can Water Works Company, 4.1')(,
American water Works Company, 4.1%
Continental Oil Company, $2 .00
continental Oil company, $2 .00
continental Oil company, $2.00
Honeywell Incor porated , 3%
Honeywell Incorporated, 3%
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemica l, 4-1/ 8%
()Wens-Illi nois Gl ass co., 4%
Pur e x corporation, Ltd., $1 .3 5
P urex Corporation, Ltd . , $ 1.35
Signal Oil & Gas Company, $2.40

SCHEDULE l
Page 4

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

(Consolidated sched ule of i nvestments, other than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

Face Value

343

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

28,181
15,677-S
18' 165
30, 308-s
6, 046-F
46,466
37,165-K
10,327
11,451-F
64, 748
1 0, 160-S
52,020

Book Value
600
500
100
500
500
900
200
100

s ignal Oil & Gas company, $2.40
Signal Oil & Gas Comp any, $2.40
Signal Oil & Gas company, $2.40
Tenneco Incorporated, 4.72%, 2nd
union Oil Company of California,
Union oil company of California,
Union Oil company of California,
Union Oil company of California,

$

$2.50
$2 .50
$2.5 0
$ 2.50

Total convertible preferred
stock

38,882-s
32,603-A
6,472-K
48,618
33,748
60,602-S
13 ,520-K
6,785-A
571,944

COMMON STOCK
105
597
200
200
1,600
653
26
4 00
400
200
100
30
1 60
415
1 00
200
200
1,600
1 00
100
200
400
400
706

Allied Ch~mical corp.
American Telephone and Telegraph Company
American Telephone and Telegraph company
As soci ates Investment Company
Associates Investment Company
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Bend:i'.x Corporation
c.I.T. Financial corporation
c.I.T. Financial corporation
C.I.T. Financial Corporation
c.I.T. Financial corporation
Cincinnati Gas & Electric company
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Columbia Gas System , Inc.
Columbia Gas system, In c .
Columb ia Gas System, Inc .
Commercial credit compan y
comroercial Credit Company
commercial Credit company
comroercial Credit Comp any
commercial Credit company
consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
consolidated Edison Company of New York, I nc .

6,415
38,712
13,845-K
5,668-K
45,480
35,251
1,284
13,320
13,446-S
6,748-K
4,077-B
8 78
5,050
13,065
2,657-R
5,641-F
6,571-K
61,377
3,990-B
3,989-F
B ,206-K
15,151-S
17,871-A
29,831

344

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
SCHEDULE 1
Page 5

.MASONIC HOMES . OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 6

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

I NVESTMENTS
June 30, 19 66

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
investments o f the Permanent Endowment Fund)

COMMON STOCK {Continued)

COMMON STOCK

(Conti ~ ued)

Book Value
200
58
102
16
100
660
119
100
100
100
500
500
332
200
500
425
357
100
200
100
335
200
33
1,680
20
100
600
472
200
11,400
110
510
408
200
200
200
100
100
100
200
1,800
100

345

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

c·onsolidated Natural Gas Company
constant Construction control Company
corona Foothill Lemon co .
cosmopolitan Realty co.
crocker-Citizens National Bank
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
Dow Chemical company
Duquesne Light Company
Duquesne Light company
Duquesne Light company
Duquesne Light company
Duquesne Light company
El Paso Natural Gas Company·
El Paso Natural Gas Company
El Pas o Natural Gas Company
Fund American Companies
First National City Bank of New York"
First National City Bank of New York
First National City Eank of New York
First National Ba nk of Hawaii
General Elec tric Company
General Electric Company
General Public Utilities corporation
Gillette Company
Gulf Oil Corporation
Hercules Incorporated
Honeywell, Inc.
Insurance Company of North America
Insurance company of North America
Internati onal Resources co.
Interstate Power co.
·Irving Trust company of New York
Irving Trust Company of New York
Irving Trust Company of New York
Laclede Gas Company
Laclede Gas Company
Liggett & Myers Tobacco co.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco co.
Lone Star Gas Coropany
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas Company

15,297
580
30,600
3,840
4,516-A
33,605
9,209
2,884-R
2,884-s
2,884-W
17 , .683
17,683-K
8,203
4,635-K
11, 146-A
14,459
20,919
5,745-A
11, 690-K
6,083-F
25,743
16, 770-A
1,064
59,850
693
4,265·
44,611
42,717
18 ,497-A
57
3,008
22,292
17,839-A
8,555-K
5,517-K
5,140-A
ll, 138
9,000-L
2,280-S
4,560-L
42,587
2,280-B

Book value
200
525
200
300
1, 000
1,167
4 00
200
200
200
420
40 0
129
100
200
800
40 0
21
400
200
5' 50 0
100
225
2,855
200
200
100
494
468
1,492
253
705
100
33
2,503
204
·500
200
532
200
840

P. Lorillard Company
Luther Burbank F inancia l Company
Mobil Oil corporation
Nati onal Lead co.
Niagara Mohawk Power corporation
Northern Mor tgage Company
Ohio Edison Compa ny
Ohi o Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Compa ny
Panhandle Eastern Pipe line Company
Parke, Davis & co.
J, c. Penney Co.
J. c. Penney co.
P ennsyrvani a Power a nd Light Company
Phi ladelphia Electr ic Company
Pr oc ter & Gamble Company
Ramona savings and Loan Association
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Santa Rosa savings a nd Loan Associat ion
Seattle F irst National Bank
Secu rity First Nat ion al Bank
Secuiity First National Bank
Security First National Bank
Singe r co.
Sherwin-Williams Company
southern California Edison Company
southern Ca liforn i~ Edison Company
Southern Natur al Gas Company
southern Realty co.
Standa rd Oil company (California)
St andard Oil company (New Jersey)
Standard Oil Company (New Jer sey)
Te.nneco Incorporated
Tenneco Incorporated
Tenneco Incorpo rated
Texas Utilitie s co.
Transamerica Corporation
Union carbide corp.
Union Ele ctric Company

$

9,485-A
5. 25 0
4 , 843
20, 853
24 , 596
11 , 67 0
7,577 -B
3, 788-L
4,668 -P
3, 763-W
16 ,669
12,542
6 , 03 6
4,97 0-F
7 ,17 6
24, 35 0
30,8 61
16, 800
18, 719
9,359 -A
145, 000
6,44 5 -A
1, 9 57-F
1 05,436
9, 033-K
14. 719
4 ,819
18 ' 063
19, 480-K
37,4 79
399-F
49,818
8,147 -A
2,6 60
57, 964
4, 963 -S
12,532-K
9 025
19,240
13 ,75 3
23 ,4 0 1
t

346

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

347

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 7

MASONIC HOMES OF CA LIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

SCHEDULE l
Page 6

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

(Consolidated schedule of investments, oth er than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

COMMON STOCK (Continued)
Book value
210
525
925
439
263
600
200
1,126
476
100
100
200
671
l,000
300

union Electric Company
Union Electric Company
Union Oil company of California
Union Oil c ompany of California
United States Gypsum Co.
Virginia Electric and Pa.1er Company
Virginia Electric and Power Company
wel l s Fargo Bank
wells Fargo Bank
wells Fargo Bank
wells Fargo Bank
western Bancorporation
Western Bancorporation
F. w. Woolworth co.
F. w. woo lwo r t h co.
Four lots of securities, relating to
Masonic Temples in certain California
cities, c arr ied at a nominal value

5,977-F
16, 260-K
31,555-K
18. 506
20. 906
40,452
10,066-K
31 , 642
6,662-F
4,491-A
4, 240-K
7,426-K
23,909
23,342
7,972-A

1

Total c ommon stock

1,993 , 469

To ta l inves tments

$5 , 299 , 965

Note:

The foregoing schedule includes all the securities
o f the Ma sonic Homes of California, except those
in the Permanent Endowment Fund which ar e shown on
Schedule 2. Securities are coded for the following
funds:

(Uncoded)

General Fund, Exhibit A

$4,049,550

The Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund,
Exhibit P

254,572

George F . Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarship Fund, Exhibit I

40, 025

F

c. N. Flint Trust Fund, Exhibit L

275, 707

K

Florence Katherine Burt Trust PUnd,
Exhibit 0

298,793

L

Joh n and Lena Luckenbach Fund,
Exhibit H

72 ,028

p

George M. and Florence G. Perine
EndCMment Fund, Exhibit J

14,666

R

Residents' Accounts, Exhibit N

30,442

s

Students' Lo an and Scholarship F und,
Exhibit M

247,553

w

Harriet c. Wadleigh EndCMment Annuity,
Exhibit K

6, 647

A
B

T otal investments
(Schedule 1, page 7)

$5,289,985

348

349

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page l

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF nJE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2

Page 2

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF nJE
MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

BONDS (Continued)
Face Value
$

1 00, 000

so. 000
100,000
100,000
1 00,000
50,000
100,000
100,000
210,000
222,000
1.100,000
500,000
100 ,000
1 ,000,000
94,000
50,000
100,000
200,000
1 00,000
200,000
100,000

Book Value
American Telephone & Telegraph co.,
5-1/8%, 4 / 1/0l
Atlantic coast Line R. R. Equipmen t Trust,
4-1/8%, 9/1/68
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Equipmen t Trust,
4-1/8%, 9/1/69
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. co. Equipment Trust,
4-1/ 4%, 8 / 1/68
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Equipment Trust, 4-3/ 8%. 7/1/ 69
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Equipment Trust, 4-5/ 8%, 7/ 1/ 68
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Equipmen t Tru st , 4-7/8%, 9/15/76
Chicago Rock Island Pacific R. R.
Equipment Trust, 4-1/4%, 2/ 1/68
Federal Home Loan Bank, 4-1/8%, 8/15/66
Federal Land Bank, 4%, 6/20/68
Federal Land Ba nk , 4-3 / 8%, 12/ 20/66
Federal National Mortgage Association,
4-1/8%, 8 / 1 0/7 1
Federal Nationa l Mortgage Association,
5-1/8%, 2/ 10/ 72
Federal National Mor tgage Association,
Certificates of Participation, 5.45%,
4/1/76
First National City Bank of New Yo rk,
4%, 7/1/90
Great Northern Ry. co. Equipment Trust,
2-5/8%, 12/ 1/68
Great Northern Ry. co. Equipment Trust,
4%, 6/1/69
Great Northern Ry. co. Equipment Trust,
4-1/ 4%, 4/ 15/ 72
Gulf Mobile & Ohio R. R. co. Equipment
Trus t , 4-1 /8% , 8/1/69
Gulf Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co. Equipment
Trust, 4-5 / 8%, 1/15/74
Hunt Foods & Industries, 4-3/8%, 7/1/86

$
$

100,2 50
79,732
98,832
1 00 ,887
99,548
50,893
98,588

100 , 000
60,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
50,000

100, 398
210, 144
223,623
1,098,109

100,000

505.250

1 00 , 000

99 , 911

200,000

15,000

100,000
1,000,000
97,200

Book Value

Face value

130,000
200, 000

49,608
70, 000
100, 261
198 , 224

125, 000
100,000

99,098

55, 000

194. 514
106, 6 35

90, 000

Louisvi lle & Nashv ille R. R. Equipment
Trust, 3-7 / 8%, 6/1/71
Loui sville & Nashville R. R. Equipment
Trust, 4%, 3/15/71
Lo uisville & Nashville R. R. Equipment
Trust, 4-1 / 8%, 10/15/68
Louisv ille & Nashville R. R. Equipment
Tru st , 4-3 / 8%, 8 / 15/ 73
Missouri Pacific R. R. Equipment Trust,
Series S , 4%, 5/ 1 / 70
Mi ssouri Pacifi c R. R. Equipment Trust,
Series s , 4-1/8%, 5/ 1/ 68
New York, Chicago & St. Louis R. R.
Equipment Trust, 4-3/ 8%, 4/ 15/69
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Trust,
3-7 / 8%, 1 / 1 / 72
Norfolk and wes t ern Ry. Equipment Trust,
4%. 5/1 / 70
No r folk and we stern Ry. Equipment Trust,
5-1/8%, 1/1/77
Norfolk a nd wes tern Ry. Equipment Trust,
5-118%, 1/ 1/7 3
Northern Paci f ic Ry. Equipment Trust,
ll-1/ 8%, 3/18 /7 0
Northern Pacific Ry. Equ ipment Trust,
4-1 / 8%. 3/18 / 7 3
Pennsylv ani a R. R. Equipment Tr u s t,
5-1/4% , 10/ 1/ 75
Seaboard Air Line R. R. Equipmen t Trust,
4-1/ 4%, 6/1 / 71
seaboard Air Line R. R. Equipment Trust,
4%. 2/1/71
Sinclair Oi l c orporation, 4-3/ S')b, 12/1/ 86
s o uthern Pacifi c Company Equipment Trust,
series 23, 4%, 11/1/68
s outhern Pacific company Equipment Trust,
4-l/4')b, 4 /1/69
southern Paci fic Comp any Equipment Trust,
Series 19, 3-7/8%, l / l /7 1

$

98,828
60,000
99, 665
98,838
99,119
100, 104

100,360
49,374
1 5 , 000
99,010
99, 787
197,622
97 , 549
129 ,517
197 , 92 6
69,77 0
126 , 510
99,336
54, 708
88,988

350

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF 'm:E
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30,· 1966

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

60,000
40,000
100,000
50,000
50,000
50,000
730,000
l,055,000
165,000
730,000
17,JOO
J,100
100,000
135,000

southern Pacific Company Equipment Trust,
series 30, 4-1/2%, 12/1/72
Southern Railway Company Equipment Trust,
series ZZ, 4%, 8/15/70
southern Railway Company Equipment Trust,
series AAA, 4-3/8%, 3/16/68
southern Railway Company Equipment Trust,
series AAA, 4-3/8%, 9/16/69
Texas and Pacific Ry. Company Equipment
Trust, Series V, 4-1/8%, 7/1/68
Tri Dam Project, Oakdale Irrigation
District, 3.05%, 7/1/04
Tri. Dam Project, south San Joaquin
Irrigation District, J.05%, 7/1/04
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 9/15/72
u. S. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 2/15/90
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 11/15/98
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 4%, 2/15/69
Virginian Ry. company, 6%, 8/1/08
wells Fargo Bank, 3-1/4%, 9/15/89
Western Maryland Ry. Equipment Trust,
Series W, 4-1/4%, 11/15/69
Wheeling Steel corporation, J-3/4%,
11/15/75

$

Total bonds

290,619
60,000
40,280
100,651
50, 054
50,109
50,109
713,660
l,084,953
165,753
730,JOO
19' 113
3 ,131

600
1,000
2,000
3
1,100
1,100
305
BOO
500
900
500
900

American water works company, 4.1%
Atlantic Richfi eld Company, $3.00
continental Oil Company, $2.00
Geysers Development Company, 7%
(nonconvertible)
Honeywell, Incorporated, 3%
Kaise r Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/8%
()<Wens-Illinois Gl ass Company, 4%
Purex Corporation Limited, $1.35
Reynolds Metals Company, 4-1/2%, 2nd
Signa l Oil and Gas, $2.40
Tenneco Incorporated, 4.72%, 2nd
Union oil Company of California, $2.50
Total convertible preferred stock

$

18 , 812
76 , 573
120 , 928
1,140
102,457
106 , 430
35 , 141
27,169
57,953
57 '728
48,61 8
6 0, 602
113 , 551

COMMON STOCK

100,260
124,890
10,277,598

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Note 5.

Book v alue

Book Value

Face Value
300,000

SCHEDULE 2
Pa.ge 4

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

BONDS (Continued)

$

351

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Reserves for Special Purposes:

The Trustees of Masonic Homes have established v~rious
special reserves (see schedule 3, pages 1 through 5) to which are
added gifts, bequests, and other amounts which generally a:e used
at the direction of the Trustees for purposes other than direct
operating expenses. The assets represented by these reserves are
included in the assets of the General Fund.

l,360
3,000
1,911
4,200
1,614
2,000
1,900
4,800
4,080
4,000
2,000
4,478
3,500
3,744
l , 820
1, 000
3, 087
880

Allied chemical c o rporation
American can Company
American Telephone and Telegraph Company
Associates Investme·nt Company
sank of America N.T. & S.A.
Bank of California, N.A.
Bendix corporation
c.I.T. Financial corp.
central Illinois Light co.
Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co.
Cleveland Electric Illurninatin9 Company
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
commercial Credit co.
consolidated Edison Company of
New York, Inc.
consolidated Natu ral Gas Company
continental can Company, Inc.
crocker-citizens National Bank
crown Zellerbach corporation

68 , 104
135 , 811
132 , 343
132 , 42 0
9 0, 647
129,221
119 , 404
182,292
9 0 ,428
89 , 204
66 , 721
117 '065
145 , 167
138 , 888
139 , 238
55, 0 24
68 , 2 01
46,134

352

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

1,013
4,200
5,800
9 00
l,428
2,000
1,105
2,583
1,632
765
1,900
1 , 400
467
400
3,438
2 '642
6,600
l, 700
3,800
1,800
1,112

1 ,6 00
2,200
2,800
1,877
2,200
3,400
1,600
2,412
2,200
1,000
l,618
4,015
l , 400
2,995
1 , 574
1 ,900
2 ,300
2,600

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 5

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF 'IRE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1966

COMMON STOCK (Continued)

CCMMON STOCK (Continued)

Dow Chemic al company
Duquesne Light Company
El Paso Natural Gas Compa ny
First Nati onal Bank o f Hawaii
First Nat ional City Bank o f New York
Fund American Companies
General Electric company
General P ublic util ities corp.
Gulf Oil corporation
Hartford Fir e Insurance co.
Hercules Incorporated
Honeywe ll Incorporated
Hy-Draft Incorporated
Insurance Company o f North America
Interstate Power co.
Irving Trust Company of New York
Laclede Gas Company
Liggett & My er s Tobacco co.
Lone star Gas c ompany
p. Lorillard Company
Mobil Oil Corporation
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
National Le ad co.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Northern States power of Minneso ta
Ohio Edison Company
Parke, Dav i s & co.
J. c. Penney Co.
Pennsylvania Powe r and Light Company
Philade l phia Electric Company
Phillips Petroleum company
Proc ter and Gamble Company
Public Service Company of Col or ado
R. J . Reynolds Tobacco company
Seattle First National Bank
Security First National Bank
Sherwin-Williams co .
Singer co.
southern California Edison company

353

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Book Va lue

Shares

64,595
116, 672
138,951
54 ,906
82,461
57,228
91, 723
42 , 798
60,109
48 , 841
78,479
103,727
1 , 4 01
21,282
93, 048
113,933
175 , 343
143 760
92 ,156
83 ,016
27 09 7
169. 229
175, 482
68 ,92 3
22,784
50,859
106,625
77,602
86, 071
67,816
56,633
125 ,9 65
125,274
59' 033
18 7,212
51,593
108, 558
135,008
93 , 275

2,000

I

4

1,756
893
5,318
l, 037
1,300
3,066
2,063
2,932
1,800
5,460
1 , 300
2,025
2. 075
3,940
4,700

SCHBDULB 2
Page 6

Book Value
Southern Natural Gas Company
southern Realty company
Standard Oil Company (California)
Standard Oil company (New Jersey)
Tenneco Incorporated
Texaco, Inc.
Texas Utilities Company
Title Insurance & Trust Company
Transamerica corporation
Union Bank, Los Angeles
Union carbide corp.
Union Electr i c company
United States Gypsum company
Virginia Electric and power company
Wells Fargo Bank
west ern Bancorporation
F. w. Woolworth co.
Five lots of stock of undetermined value
received as g ifts , carried at a nominal
value

$

47,225
11

97,818
72,026
125,359
41, 703
81,190
38, 970
51,818
175 ,60 0
115, 78 8
165 , 551
115 ,552
102, 318
91,810
145,639
113,271
2

I

Total common stock
Total investments, Exhibit G

6,988,231
$17,979,380

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3
Page 1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

355

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3
Page 2

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30 1 1966 and 1965

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

COVINA RESERVE

This reserve is credited with amounts to be used for the
general purposes of the Decoto and Covina Homes.

This reserve is credited with amounts to be used for t h e
benefit of the Covina Home.
1966

1966
Additions to Reserve during year:
Bequests

19 65

Additions to Reserve during year:
Bequests

$166,088

$ 11, 798

952

$

196,53 6

$

216,857

Net income from real estate received
by bequests

6,672

6,667

1, 109

Contributions

7' 043

4,744

1,650

2,500

Sal e of livestock and equipment

8, 100

168' 690

15 '407

Net income from real estate received
by bequests
Contributions

Pr oceed s from closing 4-H Club ac count

13' 338
231, 689

228 , 268

Reductions in Reserve during year:
Reductions in Reserve auiing year;

Transfer to Property Fund, Exhibit D, for:
Additions to San Francisco office
Additions to Decoto Home

611

14,616

17,991

100,000

Transfer to General Fund, Exhibit B, to
reimburse for Homes' expense
18' 602
Net increase (decrease) in Reserve
during year
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

150,088

Trans f ers to General Fund, Ex hibit B,
to reimburse for operating expenses
of Covina Home:
Farm and grounds expense

22,589

28,628

959

Hospital and medical expen se

15,824

19,210

115,575

Special benefits to r esidents

15,165

16,317

Camp expep se

20,684

16,186

(100,168)

173,031

273,199

$323,119

$173' 031

Rep la c emen t s of equipment
Transf e r to Pr oper ty Fund, Exhibit D ,
for l e as e hold improvements to
Big Bear c amp

Net inc rea se in Reserve dur i ng year
Balance, beginning o f year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

The accompanying notes ar e an integral
part of the financial statements.

4 , 125

3,247

78,387

83,588

2,355

4 5,358

8 0' 742

128,946

150, 947

99,32 2

1,283 , 088

1 ,18 3 , 766

$1. 434' 03 5

$1,283 I 088

Th e accompanying n ote s are an integral
part of t he f inanci al statements.

356

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

Page 3

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

357

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE J
Page 4

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended J une 30, 1966 and 1965

DECOTO RESERVE

UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE

This reser ve is credited with amoun ts to be used for the
benefit of the Decoto Home.

This reserve is credited with amounts assigned by residents
of the Decoto Home on admission, including proceeds from pensions,
life insurance policies, and sale of real estate. The reserv e is used
for the benefit of the residents of the Decoto Home.

Additions to Reserve during year:
Bequests
Net income from real estate received
by bequests
C . N. Flint Trust Fund income.
Bxhibit L
George M. and Flore nce G. Perine
Endowment Fund income, Exhibit J
Residents' Accounts income, Exhibit N
Contributions
Reductions in Reserve during year:
Transfers to General Fund, Exhibit B,
to reimburse for operating expenses
of Decoto Home:
Special benefi t s to residents
Grand Lodge trips to Decoto during
annual communications
Replacements of equipment
Net increase in Reserve
during year
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

~

1966
~

736,385

$ 48,016

2,558

3,874

11,326

ll,940

73 0
8,473

641
2,025

45

0, 290

759,517

74,786

8,457

6,805

3,245

2 ,5 89
2,160

11, 702

11 , 554

747,815

63,232

467,848

404, 61 6

$1,215.663

$467.848

Additions to Reserve during year:
Assets assigned by residents of the
Decoto Home on admission, including
proceeds from sale of real estate,
and from life insurance policies
Pensions assigned by residents o f the
Decoto Home
Accounts of deceased residents
Income (expenses) from real estate
assigned by residents on admission
Reductions in Reserve during year:
Transfers to General Fund, Exhibit B:
To reimburse for operating expense s
of Deco to Home:
Monthly grants to residents
Funeral expense
Real est.ate and insurance expense
Replacements of equipment
Of an amount equivalent to assigned
pensions received
Trans{ers to property Fund, Exhibit D,
for additions to Decoto Home
Net increase (decrease) in Reserve
during year
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

$171,779

130,054

$

258,936
10,854

291,155
12,034
( 404 )

215

474 ,564

400. 059

52,993
7,240
3,143

55,535
8,901
2,537
3,007

63,376

69,980

291,155

258,936

354, 531

540,119

211,203

12 0, 033

( 140, 060)

864 , 4 76

1. 004, 536

$984.509

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

$

864 .476

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

359

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3
Page 5

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCl-iEDlJLE 4

DETAILS OF EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 196 6 and 1965

1965

I ncrease
(Decre ase )

403. 728
496,926
3 1,587
133 ,949
75,623
165 ,410
1,307,223

$(16,37 0)
48,130
364
(5,937)
( 1, 770)
2 0. 118
44,535

152,711
15,823
22,589
78 ,335
20,684
19,821
77 ,809
387,772

162,460
19. 210
28,628
69,687
1 6,18 5
21, 71 0
64,799
382,679

(9,749 )
( 3 , 387 )
(6,039 )
8,648
4 , 499
( 1 , 889 )
13 ' 0 10
5 , 093

9 , 458

12 '904

(3 , 44 6 )

24,000

24 '000

21. 511
23,741
14, 166
7, 296
6, 164
4,250

16,672
13,866
13,898
6,743
5·, 191
4,250

18,2 62
4 ,595
3 ,245
3,218
1, 500
5 ,808
137' 756

3,633
2,589
1 ,809
1 , 200
6,517
1 00 ,3 68

18,2 62
962
656
l ,4 09
300
(709)
3 7,388

$1,886,744

$1,803, 1 74

$ 83,570

ENTERTAINMENT RESERVES
These reserves are credited with contributions to be used
for the entertainment of the residents of the Homes.

COVINA ENTERTAINMENT RESF.RVE

Contributions received during year
Lese, transfer to General Fund, Exhibit B, to
reimburse for entertainment expens e of
Covina Home
Net increase in Reserve during year
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhi bit E

1966

1965

$6,688

$6,114

4,656

~

2,032

722

2-,..!.Ql

2,381

$5,135

$3, 103

contributions received during year

Net increase in Reserve during year
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

covina Home operating expense:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
plant and transportation
camp operating expense
Allowances, etc . to residents
Administrative
J utside relief of Masonic Homes

DECOTO ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

Lees, trans f er to General Fund, Exhibit B,
to reimburse for entertainment expense
of Decoto Home

Decoto Home operating expense:
Residen ts' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transportation
Allowances, etc. to residents
Administrative

1966

1965

$3,287

$3 ,414

2, 020

l,844

1,267

1,570

5,799

4' 229

$7 066

$5,799

I

387,358
545,056
31,951
128, 012
73,853
185,5 28
l,351,758

$

~dministrative

and general expense:
Grand Lodg e - secretarial and
other services
Endowment Fund expenses (includes
reimbursements to Grand Lodge
of $18,925 and $14,172)
Office salaries
Field investigations
Investment co~nsel fee
Office supplies and printing
Auditing services
Legal fe es in connection with
bequests
Pension and other payroll costs
Grand Lodge tr ip to Decoto
Trustees' expenses
Securities safekeeping
Other
Total, Exhibit C

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

$

The accompanying notes a re an integral
part of the financial statements.

4,839
9,875
268
553
97 3

360

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

361

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1966

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT
LYBRAND, Ross BRos. &. MONTGOMERY
CCRTlrl£0 PUBLIC ACCO U NTANTS

Note 1.

Basis of Accounting:

0NC

BUSH

STRCllE T

SAN F°RANCISCO 4

The financial statements are stated on a modified cash basis
of accounting. Transactions generally are recorded at the time of the
receipt or payment of cash. current operating expense bills unpaid
·were of nominal amount.
Land, buildings, and equipment are recorded at the cost when
originally purchased and no depreciation of buildings and equipment
has been provided for in the accounts. Replacements of original items
of equipment are charged to operating expenses.

Y U KON I· 5:Jlll

CooP~R.§

r... LY1!11lA~D

To the Trustees of
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
1111 Cal ifornia Street,

Note 2.

Investments:

Investments in securities purchased are stated at cost.
Securities received by gift or bequest or by assignment by residents
of the Home at Decato are stated at estimated market value at the
time the securities are received or at the nominal value of $1 if the
market value is unknown. In a few instances, the carrying value of
unlisted stocks acquired by gift or bequest has been stated at the
per share value of the underlying assets of the company which is
believed to be less than the market value.
Note 3.

Notes Rece i vable:

San Francisco, California 94108.
We have examined the statement of assets, liabilities , and
fund b alance of CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE, a California
nonprofit corporation, as of June 30, 1966, and the related statemen t
of income received a nd expenses disbursed for the year then ended.
ou r exami n ation was made in accordance with generally accepted audit:i,llg standards, and accordingl y included such tests of the a ccounting
records a nd such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstan ces.

We previously examined and r eported u pon the

Notes receivable arise from the sale of real estate assigned
to Masonic Homes of California by residents of the Home at Decato and
from real estate received as gifts or bequests by the Homes or the
Perma n ent Endowment Fund.

f i nancial statements f or the year ended June 30, 1965.

Note 4.

cash transactions, and the income received and expenses disbursed

In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fair ly
the assets, liabilities, and f u nd balance of California Masonic
Memorial Temple, at June 30, 1966 an d 1965, arising primarily from

Other Assets:

Other assets consist of life insurance policies and real
estate assigned to Masonic Homes of California by residents of the
Home at Decato or received as gifts or bequests by the various funds.
The life insurance policies and parcels of real estate are each
recorded at the nominal value of $1 for accountability. Payment by
Masonic Homes of loans previously obtained by the assignors on life
insurance policies or on real estate are added to the nominal value,

Note 5.

Reserves for Special Purposes:

The Trustees of Masonic Homes have established various
Bpecial reserves (see Schedule 3, pages 1 through 5) to which are
~dded gifts, bequests, and other amounts which generally are used
at the direction of the Trustees for purposes other than direct
operating expenses. The assets represented by these reserves are
included in the assets of the General Fund.

by it for the years then ended, on a consistent basis.
we attach the following:
Exhib it A

Statement of assets, l iabilities,
a nd fund balance

Exhibit B

Statement of income received and
expenses disbursed

Schedule 1

Summary of con t ributions received

One page

Notes to financ i al statements.

362

363

GRAND LODG E OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

EXHIBIT B

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

EXHIBIT A

STATEMENT OF INCOME RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
.For the years ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1966 and 1965

Increase
(Decrease )

A S S E T S:
1966

Cash

$

Memorial Temple property (at cost - Note 1):
Land
Building and building equipment
Furnishings
Total as sets

241, 974

1965
$

94, 208

734 ,304
5,214,166
215, 996

734,304
5, 211, 539
21 5 ,933

6,164,466

6,161,776

$~.~Q~,4~2

$~,2~~.2114

Building income:
Rent and other charges to public
Rent of garage
Ren t of s pace to Grand Lodge
Operating e xpenses :
Bui ld ing expense:
Salari es a nd payroll expense
Uti lit ies and services
Maintenance
Insurance

Real property taxes

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE:
Liabilities:
Notes payable to banks (Note 2)
Deposi ts for rental of space by public
Accrued payrol l taxes and expense
Reserve for renewals and replac ements
(Note 3)
Tota l liabilities
Fund balance:
c ontribu tions :
Received prior to beginning o f year
Received during year, Schedule l
Tota l contr ibutions to end
of year
Net expense of Temple building:
Net expense to beginning of year
Net (income) expense for year,
Exhibit B
Net expense to end of year
.Fund balance
Total liabilities and
fund balance

$

221,790
1,086

$

4 37,790
2,750
1 , 472

9,889

8,157

232,7 6 5

450 ,169

General and administrative:
Legal and auditing
Stationery and postage
Persona l property taxes
Miscellaneous
Total operating expenses
Operating prof it

6,352,473
333,566

6,008,304
344,169

6.686,039

6,352,473

546,658

529,438

p4, 294)
6,173,675

17' 220
546,658
s,005,815

$.2,....~

$6,255,984

512 , 364

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

Other expense, net:
Interest on no tes payable
Add iti on to r~serv e for renewals
a nd replacements ( Note 3)
Less, intere st received on
bank deposits
Net income (expense)
for yea r

$ 9 1,069
64,228
18,000

$ 74,975
69,130
18,000

$ 16 ,094
(4, 9 0 2)

173, 297

162, 105

ll ,1 92

47,188
23. 186
3,137
2,028
46 , 753

414
(4, 730)
4 63
(6, 064 )
(16,953 )

122,292

46,774
27,916
2,674
8,092
63' 706
149, 162

(26 , 8 70)

3,331
776
2,141
2,718

999
1 ,270
2,098
2 ,039

2,332
(494 )
43
679

8,966

6,406

2,560

13 1,2 58

155,568

(24,310 )

42, 039

6,537

35,50 2

12,541

26 , 190

(1 3,649)

1 , 7 33

l , 629

104

14, 274

27,819

( 13, 545 )

6,529

4, 062

2 ,467

7 745

23,757

(16, 012 )

$ 34, 224

$(17,222)

$ 51. 514

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

364

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CALIFORN IA MASONIC MEMOR IAL TEMPLE

SCHEDULE l

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

SUM.MARY OP CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
For the yeara ended June 30, 1966 and 1965

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1966

Note 1 .
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.:

$241,092

$240,995

13, 599

15,012

254, 691

256,007

42, 732

42,138

297,423

298 , 145

Contributions o f initiates of fiscal
years ended Jun e 30, 1966 and 1965,
respectively, at $9.00 each

Notes Payable to Banks:

Notes payable to banks aggregating $221,700 at June 30,
1966 were secured by a first deed of trust on the Temple real
property . These notes were liquidated in August 1966.

398

712

297 ,025

297,433

Note 3 .

36,541

46, 736

$Jn~!i!i

$J4~, '!i:i!

In 1960, the Trustees authori~e d the eatablishment of a
reserve for renewal• and replacements , and annual addition thereto
of a eun equal to one percent of the annual 9ross inconie of the
Temple. This reserve has not been funded.

Contributions from individu als (see note)

~·

The financial statements, in accordance with consistent
policy , do not provide for depreciation of building, equipment, or
furnishings. Estimated accrued deprec iati on on these assets would
aggregate approximately $505,000 as of June 30, 1966 based on an
esti mated life of 100 yeara on the building and 20 years on
furnish i ngs.
Note 2 .

Less, refunds and adjustments

Total contributions received
during yea r

Basis of Accounting:

The financial statements are atated on the cash baste of
accounting. Transactions generally are recorded at the time of the
receipt or payment of cash. Current operating expense bills unpaid
ware of nominal amount.

Annual returns - 1965 and 1964:
Master Masons on June 30, 1965 and 1964,
respectively, at $1.00 per capita
Contributions of initiates of fiscal
years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964,
respectively, at $9.00 each

365

Pledges for c o ntributions unpaid at June 30, 1966
and 1965 amounted to approximately $43, 500 and
$13 ,500, respectively. Pledges are not included
in the financial statements until collected.

The a ccompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

Reserve for Renewals and Replacements:

366

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

::V1ASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT

July 1. 1965 to June 30. 1966
NAMES OF MEN RESIDENTS-AVERAGE AGE 82.06 YEARS
*Indicates admission during current year.
tlndicates couples
Town
Age
Lodge
Name
No.
Admitted
Ahlborn, G eorge ............O ct . 10, '61 Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ......83
Allen Willia m t ............June 29, '65 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......93
Ande~son, Alfred ..........Oct. 9, '64 Hollywood .......... 355 Hollywood ............ 80
Anderson, J. Woodson Apr. 27, '64 Granada .............. 608 Alha mbra ............ 77
Bacon, Herbert ..............Mar. 23, '61 Russian River .... 181 Winds or ................86
Bacon, Walter ................ Jan. 15, '63 Mt. Olive ............506 Los Angeles ........ 81
Barnes, Willia m ............ July 2, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................83
Bean, Verd ...................... Apr. 5, '63 Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ....76
Beer, Les lie .................... Dec. 19, '60 Woodstock ......... .491 Alameda ..............65
Bentley, L est ................ Nov. 19, '64 Sanger ................316 Sanger .................. 75
Blaess, Ernest .............. Sept. 20, '63 Dimond .............. 603 Oakland ................ 85
Bot hwell, Garne t• ...... S ept. 7, '65 Fellowship .......... 480 Oakland ................ 84
Brasi n gton, J a m es ........Dec. 15, '64 Ramona .............. 457 Monterey Park ....88
Bremser , Arthur ............ J u ly 9 , '60 East Gate ..... ....... 290 Los Ange les ..........85
Broadwell, Cha rles ...... F eb. 12, '64 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa R osa ..........93
Brow n, Frederick .......... Oct. 17, '57 Eucal yptus ........ 243 Hayward ..............87
Butler, Ke nne th ............ Dec. 31 , '64 Park .................... 449 San Francisco ...... 79
Campbell, Charles• t .... Jan. 18, '66 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 77
Campion, Richard ........June 24, '65 S. San Francisco 212 San Francisco ......82
Carlson, Oscar G. • ........ July 12, ' 65 Palm Springs .... 693 Palm Springs ......79
Carroll, Gustav .............. May 28, '63 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......85
Combs , J e rome ............ Se pt. 2, '62 Hawthorne ........ 647 Ha wthorne ..........85
Covell, William ............ Nov. 12, '60 Consuelo ............ 325 Escondido ............87
Creider, Roy .................. Oct. 25, '63 San Diequito ......775 Cardiff ..................85
Crozier, Alfred .............. June 26, '60 Semper Virens ..552 Eureka ............... ...83
Crystal, David .............. Mar. 11 , '64 Amity-Seal Rk. 370 San Francisco ... ...79
Deardorff, Charles ........ Dec. 7 , '59 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ..............84
Dierksen, William• ...... Jan. 10, '66 San Clemente .... 671 San Clemente ...... 82
Domenigoni, Vale nt ine Nov. 9, '64 San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jaci nto ..........86
Driver, Joseph H . ........June 2!J, '65 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 S an Fra ncisco ......81
DuBois , Andre w ............Apr. 30, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton .............. 83
Dzaroogian , Marsob ...... May 19, '60 Vallejo ............... .487 Vallejo ....... .. ..... ... 69
Eckstei n, Joseph ............ Feb. 21 , '62 Argonaut ........... .461 San F rancis co ....81
Evans. Alfred ................June 6, '61 Howard .............. 37 Yre k a ...... ... ...........81
F arley, E ver ett ..............May 20, '65 P etaluma ............ 180 Petal u ma ..............76
Ferraris. Natale ....... .....Mar. 3 , '65 Speranza Ital. .... 219 Sa n F rancisco ...... 77
Finch, Walter ................Ma y 23, ' 62 Cahueng a ..........513 Hollywood ............80
F ish er, William ............Mar. 17, ' 64 Amity-Seal
Rock ................ 370 S an Fra ncisco ......85
Frare, Giacomo ............ Apr. 1, '51 Speranza Ital. ....219 San Fra ncisco ......85
Freeman, T. Reed• ........ July 15, '65 Argonne .............. 514 San Fra ncisco ....78
Frost , Ha rold ................Nov. 1. '45 Utopia ................ 537 Los Angeles ........76
F u llalove, E<lward ...... Mar . 6, '64 Park ................... .449 San F rancisco .... 82
G ammon. Rod ger ........ Se pt. 9. '61 Van Nuys ........... .450 Va n Nuys ............77
G a rner, Char les ..... .......June 5, '64 La Habra ........... .659 L a Habra ............92
Gerhart, William ... ....... Feb . 10. '61 Pentalpha .......... 202 Los Angeles ........ 92
Girard, Lawrence • ...... Aug. 15, '65 Bakersfield ........224 B akersfield ..........76
Godfrey, He nry ............ July 25, '54 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .............. 95
Goyette, Fra nk• ............ May 25, '66 Hollywood ...... .... 355 Hollywood ............80
Gray, Arthur .. ........... .....May 12, '60 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno .................... 80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

367

Name
Town
Admitted
Age
Lodge
No.
Green, Robert ................May 7, '58 Curtis ..................140 Cloverdale ............85
Habe rdier, Oliver• ...... Sept. 25, '65 Frie ndship ..........210 San Jose ..............82
Hagemann, Henryt ......Feb. 24, '61 Hermann ·······-···127 San Francisco ....82
Haley, Michael ..............Nov . 4, '61 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne ..........81
Hammond, Cuyler ........Jan. 27, '64 Golden State .... 358 Los Angeles ........ 79
Hascall, Andrew t ..........Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................ 362 Campbell .............. 85
Hemming, Frank .......... Oct. 12, '64 Southland ..........618 Los Angeles ........86
Hendricks, George ......Sept. 26, '59 All States ............593 Long Beach ···-·····84
Hermans, H oward ........Oct. 31, '60 Corona ................ 324 Pasadena ..............76
Holloway, Dee• ..............Jan. 31, '66 Magnolia ............ 242 Santa Barbara ....75
Hooper, F rederick ........ Mar. 14, '65 La Jolla .............. 518 La Jolla ................86
Howard, Otto ................July 6, '62 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......81
Hume, Harry•t .............. July 14, 65 American ............ 475 Los Angeles ........86
Hyde, Ross t ....................Feb. 8 , '62 Eagle Rock ....... .422 Los Angeles ........ 80
Jack, Charles ................Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......87
Jacks on, Elwell ............June 7, '62 Henry Knox ...... 662 Los Angeles ........ 79
Jacobs, Walte r• ............ Sept. 17, '65 Kin g Sol. Sprt.....260 San Francisco ......84
Johnson, Gustave ....... .Aug. 28, '56 Balder ................393 San Francisco ...... 88
Kempf, Willia m ............Dec. 1, '61 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ....68
Langstaff, Edward ........ Feb. 22, '65 W. G. Harding ..579 No. Sacramento .. 74
Lepetich, Steve ............ July 22, '63 Maricopa ............434 Maricopa .............85
McConnell, Riley ..........May 14, '63 Highland Park ..382 Los Angeles ........ 74
McGraw , John ..............June 27, '58 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........ 86
Ma rtin, Ernest .............. Jan. 11, '62 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................86
Ma rti nsen , Thomas ...... Nov. 19, '57 Tehachapi .......... 313 Tehachapi ···-······-76
Mason , Fred ....................Feb. 22, '62 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........82
Me ndelson, Victor • ......Jan. 12, '66 Pacific ................ 136 San Francisco ...... 80
Miles, Gerald .................. May 27, '64 Exeter ···········-····.424 Exeter .................... 83
Milkop, Martin ............June 24, '61 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 89
Morris, Harry ................ O ct. 31 , '63 K ing Sol. Sp rt.. 260 San Francisco ......80
Newark, Gray ................Oct. 9, '64 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ....................87
Niebling, William ........ Aug. 27, '58 Capital City ...... 499 Sacrame nto ..........88
Oakley, Ch a rles ............Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus .............. 129 Wheatland ............89
Off, John W ...................Nov. 5, '62 So. Calif. ............ 278 Los Angeles .......... 62
Ollson, Les ter ................Aug. 24, '59 Charter Rock .... 410 Berkeley ..............79
Pawloski, Charies t ......F eb. 16, '65 Glassel Park ...... 605 Los Angeles ..........86
Payne, John ... ............... Aug. 3, '61 Union .................... 58 Sacramento .......... 91
Posch, P a u1• 1· ................Nov. 18, '65 Hermann ..........127 San Francis co ......88
Rader, Edward .............. Aug. 13, '62 Balder ................ 393 San Francisco ......82
Randa ll, Finelle ............ May 17, '60 Sojourner ............ 607 Monrovia ..............93
Richardson, William .... July 29, '50 Santa Maria ...... 580 Ramona ................73
Ridl ey, Alvin ............... .Feb. 1, '62 East Bay ............ 489 Berkeley .............. 96
Rober ts, Owent ............Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Na pa ......................82
Roche, G eor ge W . ...... .. J a n. 18, '57 So. Pasadena .... 367 So. Pasadena ........ 91
Rogers , Ellery• t ..........Sept. 14, '65 Perris ·······-········.411 Perris .................... 75
Rosenzweig, Sa m ..........J an . 6, '60 Argonaut ···-·······461 San Francisco ...... 70
Rumfelt, Clarence ........Jan. 19, ' 59 Liv e Oak ............ 61 O a kland ................90
Schroder , J ohn ..............Mar. 24. '61 Mission ................169 S an Francisco ....89
S cott, John ..... ............... May 9, '63 Culver City ....... .467 Culver City ..........84
Scri vner, Ches te r ........Mar. 19, '65 Van Nuys ·······-···450 Van Nuys ·····-·····-·88
Short, Benjamin ............Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside ..........577 Los Angeles ..........82
Souter, John .................. Aug. 11, '61 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................86
Specht, Fra nk ................ May 9, '60 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City .............. 79
Steigelman, Warrent .. Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower .......... 523 Bellflower ............83
Stewart, Charles .......... Apr. 5, '61 San Juan ···-··-···732 Fair Oaks .............. 85
Stewart, James ..............Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ···-······· 78 San Andreas ........95
Stites, Joseph ···-···········Sept. 17, '63 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................87
Street, Alvin ..................Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ............ 272 Pasadena .............. 93
Sullivan, James ............Oct. 2, '63 Fremont ............. .497 Oakland ................ 78
Sutherland, William ....Mar. 10, '58 Redondo .............. 328 Redondo Beach ..89
Swanson, George ........Mar.15, '62 Needles ................326 Needles ................85

368

369

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Admitted
N sme
No.
Lodge
Age
Town
Taforo, Chariest ......... .Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ···-··-·······79
Taylor, Myront ·······-···Dec. 28, '64 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles ........70
Townson, Jamest ....... .Feb. 14, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................91
Wallis, Abraham ..........Nov. 2, '47 Midway .............. 426 Taft ···········-···········82
Warden, Robert ............ June 1, '56 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ···-·······87
Waterman, Alfred ........Feb. 28, '55 Russian River .... 181 Windsor ................88
Werry, John ..................June 25, '65 King Sol Sprt.....260 San Francisco ......84
Weinberg, Harryt ........Apr. 9, '62 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ...... 80
Whittard, Ernest ..........Apr. 25, '61 Bear Mountain .. 76 Angels Camp ......94
Wilder, Williamt ..........Dec. 5, '58 Friendship .......... 210 San Jose ...........- ... 83
Wilson, Sidney ..............Jan. 6, '62 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ···········-···79
Wilson, Thomas ............Aug. 24, '59 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................82
Wold, Frederick• ..........Jan. 24, '66 Benicia................ 5 Benicia .................. 66
York, Ward ....................Feb. 28, '63 Gardena .............. 372 Gardena ................ 95

Admitted
Name
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Garve, Kurt J . ................Oct. 24, '65 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco .......71
Hopper, William ..........Nov. 14, '65 Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles ........92
Jensen, James...... ,___.Mar. 16, '66 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......94
Klossner, Jean ..............July 22, '65 Cahuenga ............513 Hollywood ............91
Lincoln, Milton.............. Sept. 19, '65 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......78
Long, John ......................Jan. 4, '66 Sojourner ·····-···607 Duarte ---·-····-·····82
Luethge, John ............... .Mar. 30, '66 Provident .......... 609 Sacramento .......... 81
Miller, Frank ..................May 27, '66 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ........._84
Moore, Herbert .............. Apr. 22, '66 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................89
Peale, Charles ................Mar. 21, '66 Montebello ........ 451 Montebello ..........83
Rossi, Valentino ............Nov. 18, '65 Roosevelt ..........500 San Francisco ......96
Sargent, George ............Nov. 22, '65 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............78
Seybold, Harry ..............Apr. 17, '66 Bay View ............401 Oakland ........ ........ 79
Stine, William ................Apr. 24, '66 Libertas ..............466 Bakersfield ........ 84
White, Harry ................June 13, '66 E. San Diego ......561 San Diego ............ 85

MEN ADMISSIONS JULY 1. 1965 TO JUNE 30, 1966
AVERAGE A.GE 79.06 YEARS
Admitted
No.
Name
Lodge
Age
Town
Bothwell, Garnet ........Sept. 7, '65 Fellowship ......... .480 Oakland ................84
Campbell, Charles ........Jan. 18, '66 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......77
Carlson, Oscar G ...........July 12, '65 Palm Springs ....693 Palm Springs ......78
David, Claud L .............Jan. 21, '66 Bell ·······-············.483 Bell ........................75
Freeman, T. R eed .......... July 15, '65 Argonne ..............514 San Francisco ......77
Girard, Lawrence ........Aug. 15, '65 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........75
Goyette, Frank ..............May 25, '66 Hollywood .......... 355 Hollywood ............ 80
Haberdier, Oliver ........ Sept. 25, '65 Friendship .......... 210 San Jose ................81
Hamilton, LeRoy ..........Jan. 20, '66 Lynwood ............ 600 Lynwood .............. 76
Holloway, Dee ................Jan. 31, '66 Magnolia ............ 242 Santa Barbara ....75
Hume, Harry .................. July 14, '65 American ........... .475 Los Angeles ........85
Jacobs, Walter .............. Sept. 17, '65 King Solomon's
Seaport ............260 San Francisco ......84
Posch, Paul ···········-··-···Nov. 18, '65 Hermann ............ 127 San Francisco ......88
Rogers, Ellery ..............Sept. 14, '65 Perris ................. .411 Perris ....................74
Sargent, George ··-····-···July 19, '65 Charter Rock .... 410 Berkeley ..............78
Seybold, Harry .............. July 21, '65 Bay View ............ 401 Oakland ................78

WITHDRAWN
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Halford, George ............Nov. 10, '65 Visalia ................I28 Visalia ..................82
Hamilton, LeRoy ..........May 7, '66 Lynwood ·······- ···600 Lynwood ·······-·····76
Name

MEN DECEASED-JULY 1, 1965 TO JUNE 30, 1966
A VER AGE AGE 83.25 YEARS
Died
Age
Town
No.
Name
Lodge
Buerman William J .... .Mar. 6, '66 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............82
Burt, Byron ..................Mar. 16, '66 Molino ................150 Tehama ................81
Carlson, Carl Oscar ....Mar. 22, '66 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......76
Casey, Newman .......- ...Dec. 26, '65 Santa Barbara .. 192 Santa Barbara .... 88
Condon, Wilbert ............Apr. 30, '66 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............90
Covington, James ........Feb. 4, '65 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........ 83
David, Claud L .............June 26, '66 Bell ..................... .483 Bell ..................... _.75
Diven, Vernon ..............Mar. 18, '66 Yount --·--············ 12 Napa ...................... 79
Dotson, Garner ............Sept. 6, '65 Sunrise ................ 522 Monterey P ark ....89
Driver, John H .............Mar. 16, '66 Belmont Shore ..716 Long Beach ..........87
Duebel, Charles ... - .......Oct. 21, '65 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 86
Dye, Melvin ..................Aug. 10, '65 Visalia, ................128 Visalia .................. 65
French, John ..................Mar. 17, '66 S. F.-Victory ...... 360 San Francisco ......83

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT
July 1, 196S to June 30, 1966

HAMES OF WOMEN RESIDENTS-AVERAGE AGE 82.26 YEARS
•Indicates admission during CUITent year.
tlndicates couples
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Age
Town
Abbott, Sarah E .............Mar. 10, '60 Mizpah ................ 378 Los Angeles ........UO
Allen, Helena V.t..........June 29, '65 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......85
Allen, Maude ................Aug. 22, '58 Lexington ..........104 El Monte ............. 83
Ames, Myra D ...............May 8, '54 Delano ................309 Delano ..................79
Anderson, Hattie ·····-···May 30, '57 Jewel .................. 374 San Francisco ...... 92
Anderson, Mary .......... Sept. 9, '60 San Mateo ..........226 San Mateo ...... .... ..87
Andrews, Lela M ...........Sept. 2, '58 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ........... 90
Angwin, Hilda ........'. .....Nov. 14, '62 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley .............. 79
Appel, Henrietta H .......Aug. 12, '60 Vermont
Square ............515 Los Angeles ····-···80
Bam.e tt, Marie W ...........Mar. 21, '63 Acorn ..................494 Oakland -··..-·· ...... 77
Barstow, Eva M.............Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose ................ 84
Bartrip,
Ada (Weinberg)t ......Feb. 7, '63 Redondo .............. 328 Redondo Beach ..77
Belknap, Annie L ...........Oct 24, '56 Temblor ..............477 Fellows ................ 90
Bennett, Rose M .............Oct. 9, '61 Golden State ....358 Los Angeles ........84
Bentley, Maryt ..............Nov. 19, '64 Sanger ................316 Sanger .......... ........63
Bergen, Anna .............. Nov. 28, '60 San FranciscoVictory ............360 San Francisco ....91
Bielar, Grace ................ Apr. 23, '62 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa C1uz ..........79
Biggar, Effie F ............ .Apr. 13, '62 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ......75
Black, Evalita M. ..........July 17, '59 King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo..85
Bloy, Edith ....................Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir ··-·······297 Dunsmuir ............94
Blum, Lena ............... _...May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............ 78
Bogan, Selma E ............. Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning ···-·· ....._ .78
Brokaw, Leona C ...........Apr. 17, '58 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka .................. 85
Brown, Eunice M. • ........May 16, '66 Burbank ..............406 Burbank .............. 67
Brown, Jean L ...............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........86
Browne, Rachel R ........June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ................ 77
Caftrey, Marie ..............Mar. 20, '63 Abell .................... 146 Ukiah ....................87
Campbell, Alice ............Oct. 25, '63 Lebanon ..............495 San Francisco ......79
Campbell, Norva•t ........Jan. 18, '66 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......71
Carlson, Lisa ..................Feb.17, '61 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......72
Carroll, Frances ............Aug. 1, '60 Alameda ............167 Fremont ................81

371

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Age
T ouin
No.
Loclge
Admitted
Name
Carswell, Adella B .........Dec. 31, '58 Lafayette ............ 126 Sebastopol ............ 93
Casterline, Mary ....... ... Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............ 93
Castle, Ollie ..................Nov. 26, '61 S. W. Hackett.... 574 San Diego .......... t!l
Che ney, Hazel E .............Aug. 15, '51 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........l.H)
Christian, Nellie ..........Aug. 21, '64 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ............ 81
Cleghorn, Lou Belle ...... Mar. 15, '61 Caledonia ..........486 Baker.;field .......... 87
Corbin, Elsa B ................ .May 31 , '61 Clovis ................. .417 Clovis ............... . . 82
Crawshaw, Della ..........Apr. 30, '64 Willow Glen ...... 67G San Jose ................76
Dale, Gertrude ..............Mar. 31 , '60 Rockridgc ......... .468 Oakland ................85
Davis, V. Mae................ June 10, '62 Vermont
Squar e ............ 515 L os Angeles ........83
De Ruehle, Irma • ..........June 15, '66 Fellowship ......... .480 Oakland ................ 77
Diefenbach, Bertha ......Feb. 20, '62 Solano ................ 229 Vallejo .............. ... 78
Donaldson, J. Elaine.... Feb. 14, '58 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............ 85
Drysdale, Charlotte ......July 5, '62 San FranciscoVictory ............ 360 Sa n Francisco ......62
Dulfer, Lola D ............ ...June 2, '65 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ...... 75
Dunn, Eleanor R. ............ Feb. 9, '62 H. S. Orme ....... .458 L os Ange les ........ 73
Eastman, Leona J .........Mar. 7, '63 Solano ............... 229 V<1llejo ... ........ . .77
Edwardes, L ina M ......... May 23, '50 Presidio ..............35-1 San Francisco .... .S·l
Elliott, Maud M .............June 15, '48 Beverly H ills .... 528 Beverly Hills ...... 88
Ely, Eva Estelle............ Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ............... 83
Fanning, Jennie ............ Nov. 4, ' 57 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................ 86
1''arrar, Gertrude ..........June 4, '65 Mill Va:ley ........ 356 Mill Valley .... ..... 83
Feiling, Idabel C ........... Feb. 3, '59 Mt. View ............ 194 Mt. Vi ew ............. 85
Flemming, Thora J ....... Jan. 3, '58 Mendocino .......... 179 Mendocino .......... 84
Forgie, Helene .............. F eb. 25. '63 Morning Star .... 68 S tockton .............. 82
Foster, Mary ................. .Feb. 15. '63 Fruitvale ........... 33:i Oakland ................84
Fox, Bertha ....................Ma r. 12, '62 Parnass us ............388 San Francisco ......81
Freulich, Helene ............July 11, '59 Hollywood ...... .. .:!55 Hollywood ...... .... 78
Garrison, Gladys ..........Feb. 1, '64 Mt. View ............ 194 Mt. View ......... ..... 70
Gilliam, Estelle ............Mar. 20, '46 Hemet .................. 615 Hemet .................. 82
Gilmore, Emma ............Feb. 26, '64 Three Pillars ....613 Sacramento .......... 74
Goldstein, Mollie ..........June 12, '64 Lincoln ............... .470 San Francisco ...... 74
Goodwin, Emma ..........June 13, '58 Vermont
Square ................ 515 Los Angeles ........ 93
Graves, Lottie ..............Mar. 25, '64 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............ 81
Grindell, Matilda .......... Jan. 13, '64 Eucalyptus ........243 H ayward .............. 91
Gundlach, Nancy .......... June 8, '62 Bakersfield ........ 224 Bakers field .......... 82
Hansen, Grace ................Jan. 11, '60 Riverban k .......... 459 Riverbank ............ 79
Hanthorn, Bess ie ..........Feb. ID, '62 Pt. Fir min ..........558 San Pedro ............ 89
Hare, Violet ....................May 12, '60 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ......86
Harper, Laura ................ Nov. 6, '57 Yolo .......... .......... 81 Yolo ......................83
H ascall, Mabelt ..............Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................362 Campbell ..............78
Hawkins, Evelyn ......... Apr. 4, '61 Yerba Buena ..... .403 Oa kland ................ 82
Hedburg, Hulcl.ah ..........Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................247 Fresno ..................87
Heintz, Mary • ................ May 20, '66 North Star .......... 91 Fort Jones ............ 75
Helmor e, Ada ................ Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley .......... 90
Hendricks, Mary ............Dec. 28, '63 Tuolumne .......... 8 Sonora .................. 83
Hert el, Agnes ................Jan. 25, '65 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........78
Hink, Loula * ..................July 26, '65 Crockett .............. 139 Sa n Francisco ...... 74
Hinze, Henrie tta ............Jan. 27, '54 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton .............. 81
Hoskins, Elizabeth ...... May 3, '55 Lancaster ............437 Lancaster ............ 87
Howard, Nina• .... .......... June 13, '66 AmitySeal Rock ........370 San Francisco ......83
Hume, Mary• t .............. J uly 14, '65 American ........... .475 Anaheim .............. 76
Hyde, Florencet . ..........Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rocle ........ 422 Los Angeles ........ 82
Hyde, M. Gertrude........Feb. 4, '64 Cupertino ..... - ...510 Cupertino ............88
Hyland, Erle ..... ............. Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ......530 Fresno ·········-·- ·····79
Ireland, Lillian ..............Aug. 10, '61 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......70
Kapantais, Edith ..........Feb. 14, '55 Ionic ·············-·····520 Los Angeles ........ 82

Age
T own
Admitted
No.
Name
Loclge
'58
1,
an.
Kir tlan, Minnie ..............J
Franklin .............. 143 Courtland ............ 80
Kreamer, Louise ............ Dec. 11, '64 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach .. 88
Lagomarsino,
H enrietta .................. Sept. 2, '58 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ........ 91
L arter, Gertrude .......... Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ................ 405 Los Angeles ........ 78
L ee, Zida F . ..................Mar. 3, '61 S ilver Trowel .... 415 Hollywood ............74
L es lie, Mary ... .. .......... .. .Dec. 14, '62 Mt. Diablo ..........448 Concord ....... ........ .83
Locke, T eresa .............. ..Mar. 9, '62 Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley ........ 100
Look, C. Maude ............ Ma i·. 16, '59 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu .............. 84
Luscombe, Laura ........ J u ne 29, '58 Richmond .......... 375 San Francisco ...... 88
Mackenzie, May .......... June 30, '41 Bay View ............ 401 Oakland ................87
MacKinnon, Dorothy ..J u ly 29, '61 Alta Loma .......... 6-13 L ong Beach ..........78
McAdam, Emma .......... Sept. 12, '60 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........83
McDowell, Alice ..........Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ............... !lO
McNa irn, Verda ............Ju ly 29, '58 Wasco .................. 583 Wasco ...... ............. 83
Marshall, Lu cy ............June 29, '61 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 77
Matthews, Annie .......... Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyome ............ 123 Healdsbu rg ........ 101
Mayfield, Mary ............ Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............93
Meck, Lulu .................... Sept. 14, '55 King David's ....209 San Luis Obispo.. 83
Miller, Catheri ne .......... Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........83
Miller, Mildred ............Dec. 1, '64 Alisa! .................. 321 P leasanton ..........76
Morefield, Mattie ..........Apr. 5, '65 R iverside ............ 635 Riverside ..............65
Moulthrop,
G ladys (Hagemann )! Oct. 1, '64 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......77
Muller, Carolyn ............ Oct. 19, '62 Golden West ...... 455 San Francisco ...... 85
Munn, Margaret ............Mar. 4, '65 San Jose .............. 10 San J ose ..............74
Murrell, Catherine ........ J an. 12, '52 J ohn Marshall .. 636 Beverly Hills ......87
Nayer, Dien a • ............. Sept. 15, '65 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............ 79
Nes tle, Asenath ............ July 7, '59 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .......... 81
Nicolaus,
Erma (Robinson) ...... Jan. 27, '59 Unity .................. 368 Glendale .............. 73
Nussbaum, Ida .............. Feb. 23, '60 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland .... ............ 87
Ohrn, Daisy .................. Apr. 15, '63 Three Pillars ...... 613 Sacr amento .......... 78
Olsen, Minnie ................May 28, '52 Humboldt ...... .... 79 Eureka .................. 83
Olsh, Sophia .................. Apr. 25, '60 Union .................. 53 Sacramento ..........80
Pace,
May E. (Taforo) t .... Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Sa nta Cruz ..........74
Pa tterson, Reine • ........ May 3, '66 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollyw ood ........... .84
Pawloski, Maryt ..........Feb. 16, '65 Glassel Park ...... 605 Los Angeles ........85
Pease, Edith .................. Au g. 31, ' 64 San Bernardino .. 348 San Bernardino ..80
Pellissier, Georgetta • .. Oct. 20, '65 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa .............. 70
Pitts, Adelaide ..............Feb. 5, '54 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocino .......... 86
Posch, Martha• t .......... Nov. 18, '65 Herm ann ............127 San F rancisco ...... 84
Raby, Gertrude ..... ....... Dec. 17, '57 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 87
Ray, Ada E ........... ..........Aug. 18, '61 Baldwin Park ....660 Baldwin Park ......81
R easoner, Mar ie (Jefts) Ju l. 21, '48 Normal H eights 632 San Diego ............84
Rehdorf, Josephine ...... Apr. 25, '63 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............33
Roberts, V. Myrlet ......Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ................ -..... 82
Robertson, Margaret .... Apr. 17, '63 Hesperian .......... 264 Santa Maria ........ 84
Rogers, Nora • t ............ Sept. 14, ' 65 Perris ................. .411 Perris ......... ........... 72
Rogers. M. Isabel ...... ....May 6, '61 Bbcby Knolls .... 699 Long Beach ..........79
Ross, Jean ...................... Apr . 16, '58 Pacific ......... .........136 San F ra ncisco ...... 80
Rounds, Florence ........ J une 12, '54 J onathan ............ 545 San F rancisco ...... 94
Russell, Sybil ......... ......Sep t. 17, '60 Utopia ................ 537 Hollywod ............ 85
R yder, Bertha ................ Oct. 17, '58 West Lake .........392 Los Angeles ........ 82
Sanfor d,
Alma (Taylor)t ..........Jan. 5, '64 University ...... ...394 Los Angeles ........75
Sargen t, Inez• ................ July 19, '65 Charter Rock .... 410 Berkeley ..............78
Sch lueter, Louise .......... July 18, '63 Eden ................ ...113 Sa n Leandro ........ 90
Schooley, Mary ............ Mar. 2, '59 Eas t Bay ............ 489 Berkeley ..............89
Scovel, Marie ................July 4, '58 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............70

370

372

373

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Seymour, Laura ............ Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ........ ...409 Honolulu .............. 88
Shenick, Eleanor ..........Aug. 2, '57 W. Los Angeles ..~73 W. Los Angeles....85
Sibley, Mabel .............. Sept. 23, '59 · Live Oak ........... 61 Oakland ................ 92
Singler, M. Louise ...... Sept. 17, '63 Benicia ................ 5 Benicia .................. 82
Skeen, Emma ................ Apr. 28, '65 Antioch .............. 175 Antioch ................ 72
Slocumb, Mabel ............ Apr. 25, '56 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento .......... 88
Smith, Eva M .................Feb. 11, '63 Norwalk ........... 315 Norwalk ................ 87
Smith, Hazel .................. Mar. 16, '61 Park Boulevard 568 Oakland ................80
Smith, Lillian ................ Oct. 16, '61 El Cajon .......... .. 576 El Cajon ..............88
Snowden, Jean ..............Dec. 29, '58 Ferndale ............193 Ferndale ............... 92
Snyder, Amanda .......... Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........93
Steigelman, Joant ........ Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ............80
Stevenson, Teresa ........ Feb. 28, '63 Maui ....................472 Hawaii ..................83
Stewart, Edna May ......Dec. 15, '61 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ..........77
Stitt, Hilda ....................July 31, '64 Thousand Oaks 478 Berkeley ..............66
Stover, Ruby* ................July 8, '65 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley ..............74
Straight, Johanna ........ Dec. 14, '63 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................73
Stromberg, Laura ........ Mar. 5, '59 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ...... 81
Swain, Sarah ................Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ..................396 Alameda .............. 87
Sweeney, Sada ............ Sept. 12, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........ 91
Taylor, Jessie• ............Aug. 31, '65 El Sereno ............ 588 Los Angeles ........87
Tillman, Ruby ..............Aug. 2, '63 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ...... 82
Timmer, Anne .............. Nov. 30, '59 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 78
Townson, Maryt ..........Feb. 14, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................ 86
Van Harreveld,
Constance .................. June 25, '64 King David's ....209 San Luis Ob....... 80
Van Sickle, Josephine Apr. 28, '64 Fresno ................247 Fresno .................. 88
Velsir, Vera .................... Jan. 24, '64 Los Gatos ............292 Los Gatos ............ 82
Waite, Florence ............ Dec. 9, '54 Amity-Seal Rk ...370 San Francisco ...... 87
Walker,
Anne (Wilder)t ........Aug. 9, '62 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................ 83
Wheat, Daisy .................. Dec. 29, '59 Meridian ............ 667 Glendale .............. 88
White, Harriette .......... Nov. 19, '62 Blackmer ........... .442 San Diego ............94
Whittaker, Ada ..............Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ...... .. .401 Oakland ···········-···93
Wilhelm, Jennie• ..........Dec. 30, '65 Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ........ 82
Williams, Winnie ........ Sept. 22, '61 Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland ................ 86
Wirth, B. Eileen ............Jan. 29, '65 Justice ................. 549 San Francisco ...... 81
Wisewell, Evelyn .......... Feb. 18, '54 California .......... 1 San Francisco .... 92
Wood, Clara• ................Aug. 24, '65 Balder ................393 San Francisco ....81
Wynman, Eva .............. Sept. 2, '59 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ............... 89
Wright, Alice ................Nov. 13, '64 Tehama .............. 3 Sacramento .......... 83
Wuster,
Yolande (Decker) ....Aug. 2, '59 Washinton ........ 20 Sacramento ..........75
Young, Edith ................Nov. 11, '63 Tehama .............. 3 Sacramento ..........73
Zimmerman, Edith ...... Oct. 28, '63 Naval ................. 87 Vallejo ..................86

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Rogers, Nora ................Se pt. 14, '65 Perris .................. 411 Perris .................... 71
Sargent, Inez ................July 19, '65 Charter Rock .... 410 Berkeley ..............77
Stover, Ruby ..................Ju ly 8, '65 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley .............. 73
Taylor, J essie N . .......... Aug. 31, '65 El Sereno ............588 Los Angeles ... ..... 86
Walker, Frances ............ Oct. 7, '65 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning ................ 80
Wilhelm, Jennie ............Dec. 30, '65 H ighland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ........ 82
Wood, Clara .................. Aug. 24, '65 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......80

WOMEN ADMISSIONS JULY l, 1965 TO JUNE 30. 1966
AVERAGE AGE 76.94 YEARS
Town
A ge
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Brown, Eunice ..............May 16, '66 Burbank ..............406 Burbank ................67
Campbell, Norva .......... Jan. 18, '66 Presidio ..............354 S an Francisco ......70
Carlson, Mary G ...........July 12, '65 Palm Springs ....693 Palm Springs ...... 80
Heintz, Mary S .............May 20, '66 North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ............ 75
Hink, Loula .................... July 26, '65 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......73
Howard, Nina .............. June 13, '66 Amity-Seal Rk ...370 San Francisco ......83
Hume, Mary E ............... July 14, '65 American ..........475 Los Angeles ........75
Patterson, Reine ···-·····May 3, '66 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ............84
Pellissii;r; <;t.eorgetta ....Oct. 20, '65 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa ..............69
Posch, Martlla ..............Nov. 18, '65 Hermann ............127 San Fraftcisco ......83

WITHDRAWN
July l. 1965 to June 30. 1966
Name
Date
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Halford, Lucy ................Nov. 10, '65 Visalia ................128 Visalia ..................79
Walker, Frances ............ Jan. 6, '66 San G orgonio ....668 Banning ................80

WOMEN DECEASED JULY l, 1965 TO JUNE 30, 1966
AVERAGE AGE 88.85 YEARS
Town
Age
Name
Died
Lodge
No.
Biehl, Elsie M ............... Apr. 9, '66 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City ............94
Carlson, Mary G ........... Feb. 15, '66 Palm Springs .... 693 Palm Springs ......81
Clark, Elizabeth ............July 15, '65 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......92
Combs, Lena E . .............. Oct. 26, '65 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne ..........76
Cormeny, Rose E . ........Nov. 16, '65 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............89
Cortright, Laura .......... Sept. 18, '65 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley ..............88
Coward, Anna ..............Mar. 20, '66 McKinley ............347 Richmond ............8 4
Dillman,
Edythe (DuBois) ......May 27, '66 Temple ....... ........... 14 Sonoma ................ 66
Esser, Margaret ............Dec. 10, '65 Mt. Davidson ....481 San Francisco ......87
Evans, Christina ............ Oct. 5, '65 Marin ..................191 S an Rafael ..........83
Foley, Lida ............:.......Feb. 23, '66 Bellflower .......... 523 Bellflower ............ 74
Gerbert, Frances .......... Jan. 14, '66 Three Pillars ...... 613 Sacramento ..........87
Hardy, Alice ..................Nov. 19, '65 Rockridge .......... 468 Oakland ................93
Hawkes, Lelia ................ Dec. 31, '65 Las Pal.mas ........366 Fresno ..................82
Hays, Lilian ..................July 20, '65 Center ............... .465 Fresno ..................69
Hendrickson, Frances Mar. 3, '66 Coalinga ............ 387 Coalinga ..............91
Hepburn, Catherine .... Oct. 13, '65 Palisades ............ 637 Santa Monica ......74
Jakobs, Inez ..................Apr. 8, '66 Monterey ............ 217 Monterey .............. 81
Jordan, Evaline ............Mar. 19, '66 Hartley ................199 Lakeport ..............95
Kallstrom, Edith .......... Dec. 19, '65 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ............ 89
Kapp,
Carrie (Vorsanger) ....Dec. 21, '65 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose .............. 93
Kent, Evaline ................Mar. 19, '66 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......8 1
Krejcik, Rose ................Dec. 3, ' 65 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ...... 90
Mccann, Elizabeth ......June 2, '66 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........88
Neumann, Frances ........Jan. 16, '66 Los Angeles .. .... 42 Los Angeles ........ 87
Prucha, Velma ..............Dec. 3, '65 Silver Gate ........ 296 Sa n Diego ............ 75
Rose, Mary ....................Mar. 3, '66 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ......92
Seagrave, Edna ............June 18, '66 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............81
Smith, Grace M ............. May 15, '66 Live Oak ........... 61 Oakland ................ 96
Stapff, Mary S ............... Jan. 13, '66 Doric .................. 2Hi San Francisco ......82
Stroud, Laura ................Feb. 17, '66 Vacaville ............ 134 Vacaville ..............92
Tier, Sofie ···-·················Dec. 31, '65 So. Park ............. 563 Los Angeles ........85
Tunstead, Rosa .............. Dec. 19, '65 King Solomon's
Seaport ............ 260 San Francisco ......88
Wells, Jennie ··-----······.Nov. 23, '65 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........97
Wood, Uriel P ............... Sept. 16, '65 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................88

375

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1966
BOYS-34

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1966

Lodge
Age
Admitted
Town
No.
N ame
Archina l, Steven ..........Nov. 12, '56 Liberal Arts ...... 677 W. Los Angeles ..17
Barnes, Larry• .............. J une 18, '66 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino .. 13
Bloedel, Kurt R. .......... June 16, '62 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ........13
Boehmer, Scott• ............ Oct. 24, '65 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino .......... 5
C-Ooper, Dwight ............Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San L eandro ......15
Cox1 Dennis .................. Sept. 7, '55 Fairfax ................ 556 Fairfax ..................15
DraKe, Charles•• ..........Nov. 30, '62 Fellowship ....... .480 Oakland ................16
Edmunds, R. Bob ........ June 13, '64 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................14
Figearo, Bert ................May 16, '65 Covenant ............ 527 Hawthorne .......... 9
Gockley, Craig ............Mar. 1, '65 St. Elmo .......... .. .597 Oakland ................14
Howey, Bruce ................ Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ........467 Los Angeles ........16
Howey, Bud .................. Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ...... .467 Los Angeles ........15
Kausrud, Stuart ............J an . 26, '64 Burbank ............ 406 Burbank ..............13
King, Brent ....................Apr. 11, '64 San Fernando .... 343 San Fernando ......17
Kna uer, Douglas• ........June 18, '66 Ashlar ................306 Colton .................... 9
Knauer, L arry• ............J une 18, '66 Ashlar ................ 306 Colton .................. 13
Knauer, Paul• ..............June 18, '66 Ashlar ................ 306 Colton .................... 8
McCormick, J ohn ........Ma r. 1, '59 Damascus .......... 648 San Bernardino .. 13
Mann, George ................J an. 1, '57 Alta Vis ta ..........464 Daly City ............ 15
Mayo, Raymond• .......... Aug. 9, '65 Bear Mt. Lodge 76 Angel's Camp ......11
Meyers, Dean• .............. Apr. 11, '66 Sunnyside .......... 577 Los Angeles ........ 5
Meyers, Gary• ..............Apr. 11, '66 Sunnyside .......... 577 L os Angeles ........ 7
Moore, Daniel ..............N ov. 10, '62 Benton ................ 64 Benton, Illinois .. 9
Moore, David ................Nov. 10, '62 Benton ................ 64 Benton, Illinois ..11
Moore, Dean .................. Nov. 10, '62 Benton ................ 64 Benton, Illinois .. 8
P erkins, Mark .............. Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner ..........607 Duarte .................. 13
Perkins, Raymond ...... Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner ..........607 Duarte ..................10
Perkins, Walter ............Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte ..................14
P erk ins. Wilson ............Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte .................. 16
P rice, Meredith• ..........Apr. 2, '66 Blackmer ........... .442 San Diego ............ 5
R ogers, William ............July 21, '64 Big Bear Lak e .. 617 Big Bear Lake .... 7
Taylor, Kevin ................ Oct. 24, ' 63 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ............ 14
Van Buskirk , Craig .... J une 12, '63 Jubilee ................604 Santa Ana ............12
Van Buskirk, Jeffrey .. June 12, '63 Jubilee ................604 Santa Ana ............ 10
•Indicates admission during current year.
••Re-admitted June 18, 1965 (left September 16, 1964) .

Age
Town
N o.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Cooper, Debra ..............Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ........ 14
Crane, N. Terry ............Mar. 16, '64 Highland Park .. 382 L os Angeles ........ 15
Crane, Vivian ................Mar. 16, '64 Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ........ 13
Edmunds, Deborah ......June 13, '64 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland .............. .12
Fitzgerald, Debra ..........Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt... 260 San Francisco ....15
Fitzgerald, Marsha ........Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt. .. 260 San Francisco ...... 17
Fitzgerald, Melanie ......Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt... 260 San Francisco ...... 10
Gettig, Debra ................J une 16, '64 Hollywood ..........355 H ollywood .......... 8
Gettig, L inda ................J une 16, '64 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............ 7
Gockley, Lori ................Mar. 1, '65 St. Elmo ............697 Oakland ................11
Gockley, Robin ............Mar. 1, '65 St. Elmo ............697 Oakland ................ 10
Hampton, Carol ............Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........ 7
Hampton, J ennie ........Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........ 9
Hampton, Vivian ........Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 535 Los Angeles ........ 11
Knauer , Nancy• ..........June 18, '66 Ashlar ................306 Colton .................. 6
Rogers, Amie ................July 21, '64 Big Bear ............ 617 Big Bear Lake .... 5
Rogers, Julie ................July 21, '64 Big Bear ............ 617 Big Bear L ake .... 6
Smith, Carolyn .............. Feb. 1, '63 Signal ..................543 Long Beach ..........14
Torrance, Debra ..........Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino .......... 13
Torrance, Kathy ..........Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ..........11
Torrance, Laurie ..........Sept. 5, '64 San Marino ..... .. 685 San Marino .......... 5
Torrance, Pamela ........ Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ... .....685 San Marino .......... 9
Torrance, Sheryl ..........Aug. 27, '61 San Mar)no ........685 San Marino .......... 8
Weddell, Pa ulette •• .... June 6, '66 Palatine .............. 314 Palatine, Illinois 14
•Indicates admission during current year.
••Indicates re-admission

374

GIRLS-22

DEPARTED DURING THE YEAR,
July 1, 1965, to June 30, 1966
BOYS-11

Age
Date Di!fcharged (st departure date)
Admitted
Name
Cooper, Douglas ............Nov. 25, '61......................Jan. 30, '66 ........................ 13
Cooper, William ..........Nov. 25, '61.....................June 18, '66 ........................16
Cox , Wayne ..................Aug. II, '54.....................J une 18, '66 ........................ 17
Crane, Joseph .............. Mar. 16, '64.....................June 16, '66........................10
Kinnimont, David ...... Sept. 6, '61..................... June 18, '66........................18
Kinsler, Mark ..............Nov. 4, '63......................Apr. 6, '66........................17
Smith, Andrew ........... Aug. 4, '61.. ................... June 15, '66........................19
Smith, Michael ............ Aug. 4, '61.. ................... June 15, '66........................ 17
Utz, B. Edward ............ Sept. 7, '63 ..................... Au g. 18, '65........................18
Wallach, Scot t .............. Sept. 8, '63 .....................J une 18, '66 ........................13
Warrick, Robert ............Nov. 21, '54..................... June 18, '66........................17

DEPARTED DURING THE YEAR,
July l, 1965. to June 30, 1966
GIRLS-3
A ge
Date Discharged (st departure date)
Date Admitted
Name
Crane, Diane ................Mar. 16, '64..................... June 16, '66........................ 8
Larimore, Linda ............July 7, '62.....................June 18, '66........................17
Wallach, Sandra .......... Sept. 8, '63.....................J une 18, '66........................ 9

376

DECOTO RESERVE

KASONIC lKJ.!ES CO!n'RIBUI'IONS

ESTA'rES:
Contributions to Resetves
July l, 1965 - June 30, 1966
(The Lodge designation indicates connection by
interest but not necessarily by membership)
RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
ESTATES:

MISC:

WsJ.ter A. Arnd
(Hollenbeck l.od8e #319)
Rose Brovn
Alden W. Celllpbell
(Washington Lod8e #ZJ)
John H. Clark
Emma G, Dllrst
Charles Dettmsn
(Palisades Lodge lf,TI)
Ethel Fenkhsusen
Nomsn A. Heath
(Pentslpha Lodge /1202)
John A. Led.ward
Henry c. Lind
(George Washington Lodge 1525)
Michael M. Minchin
(South Gate Lodge #320)
Edwin B. Mon:rort
(Larchmont lodge lf,14-)
Gilbert Robert Peckham
(Libertas lodge #4(:1;)
Charles A. Sctlwarh
Daniel J. Sullivan
(Orange Grove lodge #293)
John & Pauline Tonningsen
(Oriental lodge fll+li)
Csrl J. Tope
(Guardian lodge 1596)
Gilbert C. Varey
(Brooklyn lodge # 225)

$ 26,618 . 36
7 8 ,051.78
250.00
500.00
l,000.00
900.00
5,500.15
10,532.80

295 .10
1,816 . 28
500.00

6o4.)8

10,000 .00
l,000.00
1;.,598.33
8,56o.34
9,918.14
5 ,442.25

I.onic Foundation
Willi8lll B. Ssntee

Walter E. Duck
Verle D. Hull, Sr.

COVINA RESERVE

ESTATES:

MISC:

Ous Alex
(utopia Lodge #5TI)
George H. Andrews
(lCing David's lodge #209)
Maud Hay Boschert
Belva Ieotta Church
Essie M. Coft'!Dan
Amelia C. Coolt
Adell L. Deering
William A. Ehrle
Jesse R. futt
(Mount Moriah lodge #44)
Neil R. Gallovay
Lorenzo H. Haskin
(Pomona Lodge #246)
Marvin Lee Jones
(Laa Pal.mas Lodge #'3(:1:,)
Be.rre11 A. lCirk
George E. Montgomery
(Larchmont lodge #614)
Albert E. llevmsn
( Oelcvood lodge f74 3)
Reginald E. Nichols
(Chula Viata lodge 1626)
Lavina Ann Northrop
Janet Road
:Edward H. Smith
John E. Smith
.Adeline E. stevena
(Alhmabra lodge #332)
Gertrude M. Sullivan
Jesse N. Watson
Ambrose & Glad,ys Bovyer
Foundation
East Bay Chspter-AUSA
Fluor Imployees-Fluor Corp.
Col. E. Ii. Bi.ultling
Mre . l'1lllla McKinnon

Alan R • Mi Bit 1n1n

Order of Rainbow tor Girls
B.w. & M.C. Robertson
John L. Rose
Santa Fe J;Dployee• Club

377

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

200 . 00
2,000.00
25,800 . 53
500.00
500.00
26,51B.l.6
l,000.00
17,796-34
10,000.00
8,493.58
l93·T7
1,681.54
3,500.00
2,000.00
337 . 36
2,'3(:1:, . 24
42,955 .46
10,658.58
2'.lO .00
9,201.24
268.45
500.00
27 ,861.96

Margaret B. Arnott
Blanch A. Bowers
Viola D. BrO\ffi
Maude E. illlvis
Berry J. Diller
(Fresno Lodge #2'+7)
Jesse R. Eo!t
(Mt. Moriah lodge 144)
Herbert Gray
Gustav Alfred Hering
(Mt. Moriah lodge 1'!4)
Henry Besa
{ Oek Grove lodge :¥215)
Robert R. Howry
(South Gate Lodge 1320)
Harrison Jameson
(West Lake lodge 1392)
Marvin Lee Jonee
(Las Palmas Lodge #366)
Joseph Kahan
Henry C. Lind
William E. Lindsay
May Mandel
George Muller
J. T. Nash
(west Gate lodge /335)
Bert Nichols
{Sequoia lodge 1349)
Reginald E. Nichols
(Chula Vista Lodge 1626)
lulu Maud Pollard
George Elvin Reed
(Live Oe.k Lodge #61)
Gilbert Franklin Schneider
Mabel Spencer
»iaa Sprinkel
llamilton Dibert Sprinkel
( L1 Te Oek lodge #61)
John E. Smith
Helen w. Stern
Adeline E. St~ena
0. C. Sweeney
(Sacramento l<>dge /140)
Anita Thanpl!On
Joseph G. Venable
(Occidente..l #22)
Henry Vowinkel
( BaJ.der Lodge 1393)
Rosa II. Werner
(Acorn lodge 1'194)

MISC;

Edvin C. Grant
Albert. E. Lee Conservatorsbip

ESTATES ;

Glad,y s Frost

MISC:

California State Crll.f't or
Nat'l. Federated Craft
IDternatiOllBl Order Job's Daughters
Bethel 11o. 8

$ 5,000.00
8,000.00
419,626.26
2,000.00
4,567 .TI
10,000.00
5 ,000.00
100.00
l,000.00

6oo.oo

45,173.84
1,681.54
84.02
39.00
1,000.00
5,411.20
3,537 .34
123. 0 1
9,557.46

2,366.;!3
2,000.00
100.00
500.00
13,892.90
148,858.83
12,909.38
9,201.24
250.00
268.45
528.63
l,000.00
20,000.00

l,008.07
1,000.00

John Names

STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

Mrs. Helen Douglas

CHRI S'IMAS AND ENrERTAillMENT RESERVE
The Trustees or the Masonic Homes acknovledge with appreciation the contributions
rece1 v~ h'aD:
Knights Templar camsnder1es
Sacramento ND. 2
l'leveda No • 6
San Jose !lo. 1D
Chico No. 12
Golden Ge.te No. 16
Watsonville Comund1!?7 llo. 22

San l..u18 Ob1 spo No. 27
Southern California No. '.rr
Whittier No. 51
ImperisJ. Valley !lo. 51J
San Pedro No. 6o
Ca.lvary llo. 62

378

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
CllRIS'IMAS AND E!rl'ERTAIR.uM' RESERVt
(Continued)

Royal Arch Mason Chapter•
Nevada No. 6
Petaluma No. 22
Palo Alto No . 47
Hanford No. 74
Pomona !lo • 76
San Pedro llo. 89
Palo Alto No. 93

CHRIS'n!AS AllD Dtl'ERTADMEN'l' RES!JIVE

( continu"4)
ltiacell.&neoua (Continued)

Fidelity No. 96
Redondo No. 101
Mill Valiey No . 108
Seba stopol No. 117
Huntington Park No. 127
S..archlight No. 133
Wilmington No. 141

Ivan Levia

Loa Angeles Heral.d Eic11111iner
Hr. & Hrs. D. K. MacDouglaa
Mason.l e J a ckson Memorial Fund
Berman H. Mcinlr.e
Mob il 011 canpaey Charity Fund
Mr. a. Mra. Al Mohr
Verne & Elizabeth Nelson
Peters & Peters
PauJ. A. Pflueger
Lila Randall

Royal and Select Ma&tera Councils
Pomona Ho. 21
Harbor No. 45
A.

379

GRA ND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Red~ood

Empire !lo. 46

Resh Chapter, Order or Golden Slipper
Salinas Area Camnunity Cheat
San Gabriel Valley Noblettes
Shin Chapter , Order or Colden Slipper
Sterling Stdle
Harold Swanton
'!beater Transit Compan,y, Inc.
United Caminmity Fund
'!be We1Jternera
Goldie Ann Winkler

& A.S.R. (Bodies)
Burlingame
Fresno
Oal<land

Sacramento
San Diego
San Joae

District Ofricers Associations
420th District
421st District
506th Di strict
530th District

536th District
:;42Dd District
6o5th District
628th District

Masonic Clubs
Compass Club, llh1ttier
FA:Uson Masonic Club

long Bea ch Masonic Club

s. & I . D. Aero Square Club
San Francisco Square Club
Telephone Masonic Club, L . A.

Job 's Daughters, Rainbow for Girls, DeMolay
A. F. Hopkin& Chapter - DeMolay
Dinismiur Assembl,y No. 82
Fresno Assembl,y No. 51
Fullerton - Bethel No. 13
International Order or Job'•
Daughters

Order of Rainbow Girla
Order of Rainbolt • Corona No. 226
Rainbolt Del<lolay Mother' 1 Club
Santa Cruz No. 28

Eaatcrn Star and Amaranth
Atascadero Chapter No . 344
Bakersfield Past Matrons Assn.
Ca.&imir Chapter No . 252
East Bay ~.atron s or 1951
Eastern Star Star lighter ' s Asan.
Ivy Chapter No • 27

Mercedes Chapter No. 126
Pll$t Matrons & Past Patron& of
Santa Cruz
San Rafa.el Chapter No. 215
Siloam Chapter No . i.o6
Starlette Club or Thousand Oelta

M.1acella.neoua
Harry L. Baker
Paul & nierea& Barth
Martha Birxhefer
Leonard H. Cutter
Vida M. Dell
Stanley & Carrie E. Fisher
Charles Frel!lllNI
Mele a. Hen17 Freullcb

Colden Chain Association
Grand lodge
Cl&Tence & Jos e phine Hearn
Harland Herford
Merill C. Johnaoo
~ R. Juday, M.D.
Albert E. Lee
Joan LeQn&rd

Rf!dvood City No. 168
Mission llo. 169
Antioch !lo . 175
Petal\lllla 11o •

California No. l
Western St&T No . 2
Tehama No.

3

Yount !lo. l2
E>.u-eka No. 16
I.a Parfaite Union No.
San Joaquin No . 19
Washington No. 20
l!aya11an No. 21
Madison No. 23
El Dorlldo Ho . 26
Trinity No . 27
Golden Gate No. 30
Gold Hill No. 32
San Diego No. 35
Santa Cruz No. 38
Martinez: No. 41
Mount Moriah No. li4
~1.6 No. li6
Santa Roaa No. 57
Union No • 58
Plumu No. 6o

Natoma No. ~

futerprise No. 70
l!ulnbol dt !IO, 79
Vesper No. 84
Naval !lo. 87
Yosemite !lo. 99
c~ 11o. 101
Orov1 lie llo. 103
Pajaro No. llO
Chico No. l l i
Eden No. 113
Concord No. 117
Pidellty No . 120
A.lamo No • 122
Lafayette llo. 126
Henunn No. 127
!Ucol&ue !lo. l.29
Pacific llo. 136
Crockett No. 139
Pr&Dltlln No. 143
Oriental llo. 144
Woodland No. l56
Eicceleior lo. l66

ieo

17

East Gate llo .

29C>

Loe Catoe No. 292
Liberty No. 299

Redlanda llO . ~
Ontario No. 301
A:tuaa No . 305
Mountain View Ro. 194
Ashlar No. )06
Wilmington No. 198
Temeacal No. 314
Silveyville No. 201
Norwalk. No. 315
Stanisl aus No. 206
Allaal llo . 321
King David's Ho. 209
Corona llo. 324
Fr1e.n dsh1p llo. 210
Needles No. 326
South S1.r1 Fr1.r1cisco !lo . 212 Redondo !lo. 3::6
oak Grove No. 215
Fruitv ale No. 336
Monterey No. 217
Carquinez No. 337
Moaa.1 c No • 218
Starr King No. J44
Speranza. It&llana llo, 219
P&lo Alto No. J46
Roseville No. 222
McKinley Ho . 347
Bakersrield Ro. ~
San Bernardino lfo . 348
Brook l,yD No . 225
Sequoia No. 349
San Mateo lfo. 226
Ptle1t1ne No. 351
Athena No. 228
Pinole llo. 353
Hills Ferry No . 236
Mill Valley No. 356
Guadalupe No. 237
Charity No . 362
Santa Ana lfo . 241
Amity No. 310
Laurel No . 245
Jevel No. 374
Pomona No • 246
Richmond. No. 375
Fresno No. 247
Francia Drake No. 376
Reading llo. 254
Artesi a No.
Penreyn !lo . 258
Mllpab No . 378
Evergreen llo. 259
Fillmore Jlo. 379
Tuscan No . 261
Highland Parlt No. 382
Lompoc llo • 262
El Centro No . 38li
Heaperian No. 264
Dinuba No . 385
Or l.&nd !lo . 265
Parnassus No. 388
Galt No. 267
B&lder No. 393
Olive Branch No. 269
tln1vers1ty No. 394
R1a1ng Light No. 397
Pasadena No. 272
Arroyo No. 274
Durlln8ame No. 400
Yerba Buena. No. 4o3
Madera No. 2flO
Mount Shasta No . ::fll
.Moneta No. 4o5
la Men No . 407
South \lest llo. 263
San Miguel llo. 265
llonolulu !lo. 4o9
Puo Rob lea No, :<£6
Perri• No. 411
Silver Trovel no. 415
Bainore No. 269
Oal< llu>d No . 188
Marin No. 191

m

380

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.cmmmw; AND OO'ERTAINMENT RESERVE
(Continued)

Lod8ea (Continued)
Lindsay No . 416
Ingle11ood Ho. 421
Midvay No. 426
San Dimas No. 426
Alpha No. ~31
Standard No • 411-0
Coronado llo. 4.41
Blackmer No . 4.42
Torrance Ho. 4.47
Mount Dieblo No. 448
P&rlt No • 4.49

Mount Oao No. 46o
Argonaut No. 461
Paul Revere No. 462
Rockridae No. 468

Delta .No. 471
Tell!blor Ila . 477
Thousand Oaks No. 478
Golden Rule No. 479
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Bell No . 483
Caledonia No. i.86
Patterson No . 488
F.ast Bay Ho. li89
Woodstock No. 491
Atascadero No. 493
Acorn No. 494
Roo&evelt No. 500
Harbor No • 502
Point No . 503

El Segundo No. 507
Cupertino No. 510
Cahuenga No . 513
Argonne No. 514
fuclid No. 519
Pi~nt No. 521
Geo. Washington No. 525

Bay City No. 526
Sign.al No. 543
San Gabriel No. 546
Point Pina1n No. 558
F.ast San Diego No. 561
S. \I, Hackett No. 57li.
El Cajon Valley lio. 576

Progre&sive No. 578
Santa Maria No. 580
Security No.

Alex. Graham Bell No.
~an No. 596
Dimond No. 6o3
Provident llo. 6o9

Hemet No. 615
1'eptune No. 619

Riverside llo. 635

Indian Rock lo. 638
Alta Loma llo. 643

645

Kaveah No. 665
San Gorgonio No. 668

John P. Janaan llo. 669
Far \lest No, 673
lea Cerrito• No. 67ti.
Modesto No. 675 ·
WillOll GJ.en No. 676

Camel No. 68o
Dos Pa.las No. 681
Albany No . 686
Oilda.le No. 688
San Carlos lio. 690
Indian llella Valley lfo . 691
San Icrenzo Valley No . 718
Estero No. 719

581

Kauai No. 589
Compass No. 59C
TuJunga No. 592
Service No. 594

A.J'.E. Irvin No.

Demascua No. 648
La Brea No. 650
Malta No. 661

595

Saint John's No. 725
Merced No. 749
Golden Bovl No. 755

Clayton Valley Ila · 756
West Govina No. 758

Lelte side No. 76o
Josiah II. Roller No. 761
Coastside No . 762
TeJon No. 773
Rol llng Bills Bo. 781

GENER.AL .APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

381

G E N E R AL A P P E N D I X

CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees ·--···-··-··--···-----····--·····-···-·································-··-· 382
Special Committees ····---·---------·-··-··-···················---······-·················-··---- 385
Cons titu tional Boards ·-····--··-·································--····················--·-----·· 387
Masonic Homes -···--·--·--···--··--····················-·--···· ···········- ...................... 388
California Masonic Memorial T emple .. ·---··············-·----·-····----· ............ 389
389
Directors Masonic Clubhouses________________ _____ .....................................
Registration and M ileage Payments ................................................... _ .YJO
Lis t of Constituent Lodges.---···-·······································-·······-·········-·· 4 I 4
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ............................................ 432
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization...... ........................ 438
List of Inspectors.................................................................................... 445
Foreign Grand Lodges .................................................................... ______ 449
Alphabetical List of Lodges .................................................................. 455
C orrespondence Report Announcement ................................................ 463
Index ·············--··------····-··········----------··-···········--··············-------·----····-·-----· 464

382

383

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1966-1967

PAY OF MEMBERS

STANDING COMMITTEES

Matthew M. Codon (42) ............................ 530 Rossmore Ave ., Los Angeles 90005
Archer R. Richardson (185) .................................................... Stewart's Point 95480
Harry M. Jenks (778) ............................16038 E. Summershade, La Mirada 90638
Raymond W. Tombaugh (296) ........................ 3682 Georgia St., San Diego 92103
Eugene C. Dunham (450) ......... ......... 1642 W. Buena Vista Ave., Anaheim 92802
Ric~ard G. Ballenger (51) ............................................P. 0. Box 176, Colfax 95713
Emil K . Bender (375) ...... ................ ............ 3008 - 20th Ave., San Francisco 94132

JURISPRUDENCE
Wakefield Taylor (41) ........... .................... ...........1270 Escobar St., Martinez 94553
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ........ .................... ..........500 Sunset Ave. , Oak View 93022
Leo E. Anderson (355) ........................... ... 500 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 90017
Henry C. Clausen (630) ....... ......... ......... .234 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94102
Elmer W. Heald (384) ............. .......................... 1005 Wensley St., El Centro 92243
Elbert W. Davis (571) .................. ........... .......... .... 2908 Russell St., Berkeley 94705
Lester S. McElwain (403) ...................................... 1419 Broadway, Oakland 94612
Allen B. Gresham (348) ........... ...... 3028 Muscupiabe Dr., San Bernardino 92405
Leland T. Greenwald (639) ...................... 4348 Mentone Ave., Culver City 90231

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Ellsworth Meyer (677)............................. 1415 Linda Ridge Rd. , Pasadena 91103
Joe L. Shell (35) ............ ........ ................ ............. 2858 Kalmia Pl., San Diego 92104
Theodore Meriam (111) ..........................................713 Arbutus Ave., Chico 95926
Myr on E. Smith (394) ............................. .461 So. Boylston St., Los Angeles 90017
Richard H. Ch:imberlain (521) ....... ................. 5300 Harbord Dr., Oakland 94618
Harry B. Keeling (662) ................. ................765 So. Harvard, Los Angeles 90005
Robert B- Watts (518) ............ .............................. 7949 Princess St., La Jolla 92037
Robert J. Paroli (651)...... . ... ...... .. ....................40 Selby Lane, Atherton 94025
Donald R. Krag (608) ................. .................... ..... 935 Monte Verde, Arcadia 91007

FINANCE
Guy B. Mize (368) ......................... ................... 1238 ldlewood Rd., Glendale 91202
James E. Hammond (568) ....... .................... 154 Gramercy Dr., San Mateo 94402
John A. Sickenberger (392) ............ Avenida Majorca 728A, Laguna Hills 92653
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) ............................417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena 91106
John C. Wiesner (144) ........... ........ . ............ .49 Lake Forest Dr., Daly City 94015
0. Max Offley (794) ...... ............... ......... 1522 North Roosevelt St., Pasadena 91104
Uno E. Nordeen (549) ....... . ........ 1750 Taylor St., Apt. 202, San Francisco 94133

GRIEVANCES
Albert C. W ollenberg (344) ............................................ U. S. District Court,
450 Golden Gate Ave., San Francisco 94102
William B. Ne eley (743) .... ........ .....................1429 Virginia Ave., Glendale 91202
F olger Emerson (61) ......................... ........... ...... 2001 Magellan Dr., Oakland 94611
Harold S. M ormon (450) ...... ......... ........ .14615 Magnolia Blvd., Van Nuys 91403
A. J. Mccourtney (437) ................................ 321 Lago Lindo Dr., Palmdale 93550
Walter W . P owers (579) .................... .............. 170 Baxter Ave., Sacramento 95815
Edward T. Ma ncuso (144) ....... ................. 520 Crestlake Dr., San Francisco 94132

CREDENTIALS
Don E. Berry (568) .......... ......... .......................................P. 0. Box 208, Lodi 95241
Emil W . Trefts (38) .......... ..................................... 126 Dake Ave., Santa Cruz 95062
Harry F . Luttiken (166) .................................. 1611 - 7th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Lyle C. H a ll (758) .......... ............................ 352 W. Bennett, N o. C, G lendora 91740
Robert W. Reynolds (20) ........................6401 Chetwood Way , Sacra mento 95822
Ken neth E. Diffee (198) ........... ................. 1606 Ravenna Ave., Wilmington 90744
Roger C. Mastin, Jr. (5) ..........................................1832 Indiana St., Vallejo 94590

CHARTERS
Phillip B. Sto~e (727) ....................................... 1007 Bethany Rd., Burbank 91504
Robert A. Smith (426) ................................ ..................... .429 Center St., Taft 93268
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728) ........ ............. 1360 Newport Ave., Long Beach 90804
Wayne E. Burk (316) .........................................248 So. McCall Rd., Sanger 93657
Robert 0. West (26) ....................................... ........ P. 0. Box 752, Placerville 95667
Martin Ortlieb (35) ............ ...................................... 2889 Palm St., San Diego 92104
John L . Shaw (805) ...................................... 8845 :E. Callita St. San Gabriel 91775
Alfred T. Gruening (445) ................ ...... 124 E. Olympic Blvd.: Los Angeles 90015
Frank_ H omer (66?) ......................................610 Pullman IM., Hillsborough 94010
Quentm H. Cunningham (328) ........................16927 Elgar Ave., Torrance 90504
Jack A. Pettit (22) ....................................... 2200 - 40th Ave., ::>Qn Francisco 94116

BY-LAWS
Virl Bennehoff (1) ..................................3701 Divisadero St., San Franciscv 94123
Alden J. Fulkerson (35) ............................................ 3205 Poe St., San Diego &'ll06
Robert A. Wertsch (22) ........................ 90 San Benito Way, San Francisco 94127
Charles H. Grace (635) ............ ...................... .4210 Highland Pl., Riverside 92506
Bertrand F. Lurie (216) ........... .......................26 Rossi Ave., San Francisco 94118
Laurence M. Pennington (538) .................. 10222 San Gabriel, South Gate 90281
Donald M. Binkerd (693) ................ 4704 Sunny Dunes Rd., Palm Springs 92262

CORRESPONDENCE
Ge orge W. Burch, Jr. (650) ......... .....................417 So. Hill St., Los Angeles 90013
J ohn Wullschleger (260) ............................ 840 San Mateo Dr., Me nlo Park 94026
Maurice B . Ross (35) ................................................3040 U dal St., San Diego 92106
R a lph T . Merria m (272) .................................. 1120 E. Woodbury, Pasadena 91104
Fred W . Morris (394) ............................... .4308 Palmero Blvd1 Los Angeles 90008
A. Ellsw orth L arson (51 9) ............................16002 S. M enlo Av
e., G ardena 90247
Bruce M. Burchard (478) ............................7434 Fairmont A ve., El Cerrito 94532

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
William V an Ornum (374) ............... ....... 748 Wisconsin St., San Francisc o 94107
J oseph F. Garriott (630) .............................. 3844- 19th A ve., S an Francisco 94132
L owell H. Beckendorf ( 462) ........................ 3939 Ortega St., San Francisco 94122
Be rnie J. K atz (120) .................................... 1864 - 28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
P hil Bovero (374) .......................................... 2222 - 39th Ave., San F rancisco 94116
P e rry L aw son (462) ...................................... 1978- 46th A v e., San Francisco 94116
Edwin C. Mathisen (360) ............................337 Douglas St., S an Francisco 94114
Emmett Bundy (554) .................................... 1762 - 40th Ave., San F rancisco 94122
Edward W. Quon (673) ....... ......................... 750 Gra nt Ave., S an Francisco 94108
Roy Wieland (454) ......................................40 Lagunitas Dr., San Fra n cisco 94132
Fre de rick A. Wilson (356) ..........................................306 - 4th St., Sausalito 94965
Sta nle y Diamond (526) .............................. 1 Stonecrest Dr., San F rancisco 94132
Warren W. Wildman (336) ........................2424 H a rrington Ave., Oakland 94601

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

384

385

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LODGE FINANCING
Mark A. Green (320) .................................... 318B so. R~no s_t., gos td~~les ~g?5i
George W. Sturm (254) ................. ........... ........ 2316 Cahforn1a t.F e _mg 94104
Ivan Crase (435) ................................. ........... 1000 Mills Bldg., SanVranNcisco 91401
· · S usman (529) ............. ................. 13403 Cumpston St.
ld' 0an kl uysd 94612
B enJamm
Sidney F. Sea (188)... ......................... 904 Latham Square B g.,p a dan 91030
Elmer S Higbie (322) .............................. ... 1913 Oxley St., South a~a end 95340
George C. Barrett (99) .......... ............................... 552 West 2~t~ S~k E er~e 91316
Samuel Rosen (520) ........................................ 17136 McCormi5 s " D~mo 92114
Van T. Shackelford (283) ............................5941 Alleghany t., an iego

NECROLOGY
Chester R. MacPhec (455) ..................................... .450 Fairway Dr., Novato 94947
Raymond J. Fisher (292) ............. ................... 314 Saratoga Ave., Los Gatos ~~~30
45
William E. Rife (736) .. ............................ ..2040 Dayton Dr., Lemon Gr~ve
Robert W. Moore (30)... ........................ 867 Lakeshore Dr ., San Francisco 9413 2
Herman J. Geller (42) ............................. 865 Comstock Ave., Los Angeles 90024

RITUAL
Harold N. Richards (20) ....... .................................5260 "K" St., Sacramento 958~9
Frank P. Lemen (613) ................................. .........932 - 42nd St., Sacram~nto 958 9
William F. Po.rnter (545) ........ .......... 1200 Monterey Blvd., San Franc!sco 94 127
Ulysses Geo. Patropulos (260) .... .... 1360 Leavenworth St., San Francisco 94109
Wallace JI. Fiske (391) ...................................... ....P. 0. Box 631, Tuolumne 95379
Burton Meyer, Jr. (358) ........... .....................727 Venice Blvd., Los Angeles 90015
Wrr>- H. Price (259) .. .................................................. .P. 0. Box 72, Riverside 92502

MASONIC HISTORY
FmTest H. Keck (178) ............................ 306 Edgerton Dr., San Bernardino 92405
Paul Cowgill (1) ..................200 Lake Dr., Portola Park West, San Bruno 94066
Phillip L. Goldstein (42) ......... .. ...........219 S. Hamilton Dr., Beverly Hills 90211
William W. Glidden (2) ........................................2777 Regal Ave., Redding 96001
John McFarlane (472) ........... ..................... P. 0. Box 451h Kahului, Hawaii 96732
Lester F. Anderson (260) ................ 1240 Pennsylvania :::>t., San Francisco 94107
John A. Gellmann (470) ........................ 1012 El Camino Real, Burlingame 94011
Ralph E. H. Cooper (327) ......... ....................... 4616 Arbor Rd., Long Beach 90808

PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Herbert A. Huebner (445) .................... ...... 610 So. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
George E . Hiatt (247) ................................... .......... ..... 1364 Echo Ave., Fresno 93728
Earl Van Vorst (286) ......... ...................................P. 0. Box 233, Paso Robles 93446
Norbert P. Tester (384) ................... ...................... ...P . 0. Box 100, El Centro 92243
Thomas Scarlett, Jr. (801) ....................... .407 N. Kalaheo, Kaihea, Hawaii 96734
R?land F. Atwood (12) ............. ...................................._.P. 0. Box 2004, Nafea 94558
Richard H. Dutwiler (622) ..........................3920 Legion Lane, Los Ange es 90039
Edwin N. Sta nsel (421) .............. .......... ......P. 0. Box 607, Lake Arrowhead 92352
Pete B. Florio (42) .... ........................................ .816 Sierra Vista, Alhambra 91801
John R. Nocas (537) ....... 3500 W. Manchester Blvd., Apt. 224, In~lewood 90305
Clarence B. Hart (626) ......................................248 Minot Ave., Chu a Vista 92010
Lauren ce C. Cook (648) ........................582 Parkdale Dr., San Bernardino 92404
Clyd e M. Stine (560) ..................................3501 Fillmore St., San Francisco 94123
Carl W. Hasha (610) ........................................ ......1725 - 38th Ave., Oakland 94601
William J . Caven (111) ..........................123 Henshaw Ave., Sp. 300, Chico 95926
R obert Kerr (725) ...................................................... 1816 N . 6th St., Concord 94520
William R. Porter (313) .............................................. Star Route, Tehachapi 93561
Harold J. Farr (78) ..............................................P. 0. Box 122, San Andreas 95249

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
MASONIC EDUCATION
Wa rren Blomseth (603) ............... ... ................. 7615 Greenley Dr., Oakland 94605
David C. Lee _( ~92) .......... . ................. .. .9965 Woodruff Ave., Temple City 91780
W illiam J. Williams (685) ..... ... ........ .32521 Caribbean Dr., Sout h Laguna 92677
Harry D. Watkins (247) ...... ...................................4310 Illinois Ave., F resno 93702
Arthur Dvorin (639) ............... ............ 1030 So. Cochran Ave., Los Angeles 90019
Jesse C. Canale (442)................................ 5597 La J olla Mesa Dr., La Jolla 92037
John M. Bowe rsox (79) ............................. ...............4242 Walnut St., Eureka 95501
John C. Brown (429).................... .......................... 147 W. 12th St., Pittsburg 94565
J. William Carl (346) ............................................3208 Bry ant St .. Palo Alto 94306

CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
Richard L . Reimer (778), Chairman ............1212 N. Broadway, Suite 204,
Sa nta Ana 92701
Raymond A. Ebbage (499), Vice Ch ......... 1624 McClaren Dr., Carmichael 95608
Edward W. Wrede, Jr. (561) .............................. 5175 Bristol Rd., San Diego 92116
Charles L. Hapai (409) ........................................ 5634 Haleola St., Honolulu 96821
Charles N. Clarkson (757) ....................... ......1602 W. Walnut S t., Stockton 95203
Alan B. Bodley (623) ................... ..... 5854 San Vicente Blvd., Los Angeles 90019
~ack B. Crawford (528) .... ........................ 2404 MidwickhiH Dr., Alhambra 91803
obert Hager (476) ................... ............ ................ 56-83 1 O hve St., Thermal 92274
Sylvester J . Gorman (676) .......................... 1898 Glen Una Ave. , San Jose 95125
Clifford A. Wamel (246) ............................................615 Weber St. P omona 91766
Basil R. Gillett (124) ...... .............. ............. ..................530 Bille Rd. ,' Paradise 95969
Charles Becker (344) ................... ... ...... Cou r t House , South San Fra ncisco 94080
Lloyd M. Cowan, Jr. (603) ... .. ............................ 4861 Eggers Dr., Fremont 94536
Lavernge A. Gallagher (682) ....................... 1012 E. Williams St., Barstow 92311
Orio Winkler (752) ..................... ......................... 619 Silver Ave., Santa Rosa 95404
Richard W. Rylander (579) .................... 1807 Del Paso Blvd., S acramento 95815
Gareth W. Houk (128) ....................... ...................318 N. Fairway, Visalia 93277
Warren L . Bacon (343) ............... ....................... 13533 Branfo rd St., Pacoima 91332
H. Douglas L emons (699) ... ........ ................... 2958 Daneland St., Lakewood 90712
Harold P. Wylie (486) ...................................... 3200 Pomona St., Bakersfield 93305

DeMOLAY
tohn L . Wixon (705) ..........................2908 Oxford Ave., Knolls, Richmond 94806
ester G. Bruno (499) ................................ 6200 Fordham Way, S acramento 95831
Homer E. Rathbun (368) .................... 1035 Western Ave .. Apt. 3, Glendale 91201
Wendell M. Anderson (3 15) .................. 1482 Golden Rain Rd., 47K , L.W.,
Seal Beach 90740
Frank H. ~ e la n (439) ..... .4444 W. Point Loma Blvd., Apt. 1. San Diego 92107
Darrell Dixon (384) ... .......P . 0 . Box 39667, Griffith S tation, Los Angeles 90039
Arthur J . Pancook (801) ... .. ... ....... .... ....... ....1437-3 Hunakai St. Honolulu 96816
Garfield G. La iblin (224) ..... ..... ........... ..... 2709 Occidental St., Bakersfield 93305
Leo J. Gree_n (316) ................. .................... .............. ..1718 DeWitt St., Sanger 93657
Grover Whi te (661) ........... ....... .............. ..........2990 Canada Blvd., Glendale 91208
Ernest C. Webb (41) ............. ....................................... P. 0. Box 15, Martinez 94554

COLUMBIA TEMPLE
William D. Archer (391) .......... ......................................... Box 603, Tuolumne 95379
George A. Jurgens (491) ............................................ 942 Park St., Alameda 94501
A. T. Kie~ch (236) ............. ....... ..................... ... .. 143 W. Beverly Pl., Tracy 95376
John A. Kirby (76) ................... .. ........ ............................. .....Box 254, Altaville 95221
Donald M. Stewart, Jr. (8) ........................................................Chinese Camp 95309

387

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

TAXATION

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIO NERS

A ve., San Francisco 94127
Al exan der L · Croce (354) ·················· 333 Santa Clara
Box 817 Oakland 94604
Robert R York
(349) ..................................................P . O.
·
94121
w. Stanl~y Davis (144) ............................. .....678 - 26th A ve., s an 'F rancisco

David R. Lane (638) ................................... ........... 1155 Oxford St., Berkeley 94707
William H. Scott, Asst. Librarian (435) ..................335 Buckingham Way,
San Francisco 94127
Russell G. Worth (624) ........................... ............. 5278 Manila Ave., Oakland 94618
C. J . Bellman, J r. (541) .......................................... 546 Neilson St., Berkeley 94707
R. E. Giesin (226) ................. ........... ..........455 W. Ellsworth Ct., San Mateo 94401
Harold S. Stein, Jr. (374) .................... 1777 Eucalyptus Dr., San Francisco 94132
Henry D. Oliphant (360) ........................................2915 Florida St., Oakland 94602
Floyd F . Boyer (382) ... ................................... 844 Hauseman St., La Canada 91011

386

COMMERCI ALISM
Vincent p McMurdo (454) ..............144 Crestwood Dr., Apt. 5, Daly City 94015
Harvey H~rkness (506) ................ .....................210 W. 7t\Slti-\:t ~~~1J! ~~g~:
James J. Dalton (403) ....... .......... ..............................3.si~ ~ea St. s;n Diego 92105
Clarence Gu~ey (283) ......... -----········-··--· ·············ail Ste ~en Rd., Burbank 91504
Cletus O. Smith (358)..........................................
P

RETIREMEN T PLAN
L Harold Anderson (346) ...................................... 2231 SS. Cosurt, PFalo Alto 9944310041
·
(344) ···········
Sutter t
an rancisco
Alfred
F · Breslauer370)
······· ··········· ·111Mills
·
94104
BAId g .,., s an F rancisco
Paul A. Pflueger
(
···-·························
····:······
s
F
c·sco 94121
·
(430)
20
P
omt
Lobos
ve.,
an
ran
i
Phil N. Myers
·········--······ ·· ·········
_28th Ave. San Francisco 94122
Paul F. Balck (144)....................
................ 1844
'

PUBLIC INFORMAT ION
William H. Adams (363) ..........................................6353 Wood Dr., Oakland 94611
Hamilton Hintz (3) ....................................2548 Marshall Way, Sacramento 95818
Wilmer G. Brill (240)... ... ............ ......... ........................ P . 0 . Box 89, Colusa 95932
Glendall W. McDermott (57) .................... .....~ 1 046 Valle jo St., Santa Rosa 95404
Hugh J . Cameron (650) ............424 So. Broadway, Rm. 410, Los Angeles 90013
Kern H. Copeland (535) ......................416 S. Sherbourne Dr., L os Angeles 90048
William E. S. Jarrett (368) ....................................... 529 Arch Pl., Glendale 91206
Donald L. Batten (22) ..................... ..... ............... 29 Mercury Ave., Tiburon 94920
Niles 0. Millar, Jr. (268) .............................. 1141 W. Barst ow Ave., Fresno 93905

CONSTIT UTIONAL BOARDS
SOJOURNER S
Floyd O. Mason (728) ...................................... 3936 Lime AWve., Lsongt BReach 9oso 7
ay an a osa 954 05
L Durnf ord (57) ····································657 Karen 18
James
·
· H.
(602)
Box 365 'L os A nge les 90036
G~orge H. ii;ie~
··· ··· ······························· ·····:· ·~ita Rd
Santa Barbara 93103
Wilham W. 'fitkin (19 2)··--···············-·· ····515 Chiq
:B~x 31 Honolulu 96731
Geor~e F. G ieser (443) ............................. ...---· · ··-···-i~660Clarence' Dr., Vista 92083
Melvm F Schuster (687)..... ...................................
d M rt·
94553
Delbert A. Nelson (41) ............... ...........................240 Arthur R ., a mez

INSURANC E
·1 (215) ............................ 1 Montgomery St San Francisco 94104
T. J ames Carlie
d ., A
Allerton B. Ebert (489) ............... ..................... 826 Ensena a ve., B erk e1ey 94707

CEMETERIE S
Ballard White, Jr. (139) ............................... P . 0. Boxh2~, CaSnel Vall~y ~~~~~
Adrian Taylor (174) ... ..................................... 1149 - 28t
ve., acr~m~~r~ 95370
Marcel M. Baer (8) ............ ·---···············----·-·········-----····a.--·····ci"A . ......GI 0 d 1 91740
G . B asil Gordon, J~. (404) .............................. l 40l S. r~n Boxv~27 Q~:it~c; 95971
Raymond J . Berklme (60) ....................................Route ,
,

ENDOWME NT BOARD
J. Glen Gladson (542) ....................... .4201 Topanga Canyon Blvd., Sp. 104,
Woodland Hills 91364
Kent Seymour (356) .... ...... ___ .... ................... 525 Summit Ave., Mill Valley 94941
Charles Ratkovich (268) ............................. ......... 2954 Shasta Rd., Berkeley 94708
Frank R. Porath (442) ............................. ................. 1536 Dale St., San Diego 92102
George C. Poloynis (773) ......................................685 Magnolia, Bakersfield 93305
Norma n W. Shaw, Jr. (19) .............. ............5449 E. Morada Lane, Stockton 95205
James K. Wilson (789) .... ...... ..................... .........960 Castec Dr., Sacramento 95825
M. Edward Allred (366) ... ................................. 2122 E. Austin Way, Fresno 93726
George P . Calderwood (327) ..... ...................645 E. Bixby Rd., Long Beach 90807
William Geha (188) .............. .................... ............4081 - 39th Ave., Oakland 94619
George E. Berresford (306) ...................................... P. 0. Box 710, Redlands 92374
Rober t D. Lintner (169) ..............................2087 - 33rd Ave., San Francisco 94116
Marvin R. Andrews (242) .................... 1000 Via Tranquila, Santa Barbara 93105
Everett Todd (527) ........... ................. 926 Glenhaven Dr., Pacific Palisades 90272
Robert Dye (628) .................... ...........................14154 Valerio St., Van Nu ys 91405
Henry Allcock (652) .... -·---- -· .. .....................11170 Plainview Ave., Tujunga 91042
Carl Green (670) ............................. ...........................835 Sunset Dr., Whittier 90602
Herbert H. Cooper (614) .......................... 1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 90025
Gladstone A. Gillette (181) ............................. .1163 Beaver St., Santa Rosa 95404
Neil A. DeDontney (712) ................. .. .. .........266 Ranchita, Mountain View 94040
John D. Jorgenson (346) ..... ................... 1880 Oak Knoll Lane, Menlo Park 94026

INVESTME NT
OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES
Benjamin M. Weiss (42) ...................... 1491 So. Rexford DAr., Lovs AnN
g eles 9901043052
uys
Herbert H argrave, J r . (467) ............................8105 VernaBl ve.
d 'N an
rth
'd
Lloyd E. P arker (666) ............................... .17545 Roscoe v ., o n ge 91324

Paul A. Pflueger (370) ............. .............................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
Jack F . Bowley (370) ...................... 511 Buena Vista Ave., Re dwood City 9406 1
L. Harold Anderson (346) ........................................2231 S. Court, Palo Alto 94301
Guy B. Mize (368) ............................. ................. 1238 Idlewood Rd., Glendale 91202
Marvin R. Andrews (242) ............... ..... 1000 Via Tranquila, Santa Barbara 93105

388

389

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BOARD OF CONTROL

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Louis H. Ma hle r (577) .................................... 1320 W. 77th St., Los Angeles 90044
J ohn Swan (667) ............................................ 2438 Teasley St.bLa Crescenta 91014
Norman E. Hale (574) ......................................6012 Lomond r., San Diego 92120
Andrew Burke (549) ........... :................................ 450 Arbor Rd., Menlo Park 94026
Russell C. Horstmann (336) ............... .......................560 - 57th St., Oakland 94609

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (202) ........ 6404 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
Reginald Bunce (542) ..................................................7905 Cora St., Sunland 91040

CODE COMMISSION
Harlan P . Huebner (445) ............................ 610 So. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Edward T. Koford (57) ....Empire Bldg., 217 Exchange Ave., Santa Rosa 95401
Leonard S. Lurie (216) ..................................495 - 32nd Ave., San Francisco 94121
John T. Williams (349) ........................................ 2000 Bywood Dr., Oakland 94602

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON PUBLICATION BOARD
Laurence E. Dayton (61) ........................1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Edward H. Siems (560) ............................1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Newcomb Condee, Editor-in-Chief (614) ......................6304 Victoria Ave.,
Los Angeles 90043

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Ralph H. Head (352) ........P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 90054
Samuel I. Jacobs (216) ................. ................. 946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
P. 0. Box 4404, Irvine 92664
John F. Porter (677) ....................................
Eugene S. Hopp (260) .......................... 2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94109
Robert A. Crigler (636) ..........................5251 El Mirador Dr.. Los Angeles 90008
Lyle E. Patton (22) ............................. .49 Grand View Ave., San Francisco 94122
Frank F . Goodman (531) ............................ 1466 - 33rd Ave., San Francisco 94122
Howard M. McKinley (1) .......................... 109 Melville Ave., San Anselmo 94960
Carl U. Zachrisson (144) ................................45 - 25th Ave., San Francisco 94121
George D. Gavin, Manager
1111 California St.
San Francisco 94108
4 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

DIRECTORS

MASONIC

CLUBHOUSES

Berkeley
Elton L. Turner, Pres. (337) ..............................243 Pomona Ave., Crockett 94525
Donald P. Hewlett, Vice-Pres. (403) ....................23 Cathy Lane, Oakland 94619
William T. Friborg, Treas. (568) ............ 1166 Crescenta Court, Lafayette 94549
Paul S. Boren, Secty. (551) ...................................... 1947 Tiffin Rd., Oakland 94602
Willis H. Gillette, Asst. Secty. (560) .....24 Sequoyah View Ct., Oakland 94605
C . M. Davis (541) ..............................................900 San Benito Rd., Berkeley 94707
J. Walter Proctor (349) .......................................... 166 Athol Ave., Oakland 94606
W. H. Nutting, Jr. (188) ........................................5616 Estates Dr., Oakland 94611
E. A. Reinke (541) ........................................................ 780 San Luis, Berkeley 94707
Alfred E. Hopkins (349) ..............................1002 Ashmount Ave., Oakland 94610
Edward H. Redford (481) .................................. 16 Brentwood Pl., Oakland 94602
Gene C. Otwell (705) ............................................ 759 Creston Rd., Berkeley 94708
James S. Blaine (610) .................................. 5339 Underwood A ve., Oakland 94619
Claude McKay (489) .......................................... 36 David Ct., Walnut Creek 94598
Elbridge F. Russell (718) .......................... 2071 Santa Clara Ave., Alameda 94501

Board of Trustees

Berkeley Clubhouse

L. Harold Anderson, Pres. (346) ............................ 2231 S. Court, Palo Alto 94301
John F. Porter, Vice-Pres. (677) .. ................................P.O. Box 4404, Irvine 92664
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ................................111 Sutter St., San Francisco 94104
Edgar V. Stew art, Jr. (529) ................... .435 So. Curson Ave., Los Angeles 90036
Phil N. Myers (430) .............................. 20 Point Lobos Ave., San Francisco 94121
Eugene S . H opp (260) ..........................2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94109
Robert A. Crigler (636) ..........................5251 El Mirador Dr., Los Angeles 90008
Edward J . Blickfeldt (535) .............................. 590 Hargrave St., Inglewood 90302
l)ona ld G . Campbell (608) .............................. 2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 91108

2590 Bancroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Janaice Kohl, Resident Hostess
Mrs. Mary Kierulff, Social Hostess

Los Angeles

MASONIC HOME FOR Cl-IlLDREN

S. Roy Howell, Pres. (662) ........................ 326 No. Croft Ave., Los Angeles 90048
Bates Mason, Vice-Pres. (373) ......3227 Castle Heights Ave., Los Angele s 90034
C. Earle Crane, Secty.-Treas. (528) ....... .427 No. Palm Dr., Beverly Hills 90210
Paul R. Nichols (662) ........................................743 Glenwood Rd., Glendale 91202
A. Curtis Smith (618) ..................................211 No. Elm Dr., Beverly Hills 90210
Elvin C. Drake (677) .. :......................... 1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica 90403
Edwin W. Wade (504) .............. ............. .4155 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 90808
Marion A. Duncan (327) ............................ 1505 Armando Dr., Long Beach 90807
Frank Jenkins (528) ....................................242 So. Peck Dr., Beverly Hills 90212.
George Kussman (506) ................ 608 1h No. Beachwood Dr., Los Angeles 90004
Thomas Carroll (373) ...:..........................3630 So. Barry Ave., Los Angeles 90066
Alfred E. Gray (506) ......................................5390 Blanco Way, Culver City 90230
Herbert W. Smith (677) ................ 202D West Chevy Chase Dr., Glendale 91204
E. Dale Peck (467) .............................. 2117 So. Bronson Ave., Los Angeles 90018
C. Gordon Glenn (392) ............................ 157 So. Citrus Ave., Los Angeles 90036

20336 East Badillo Street
Covina, California
Telephone 331-0541
. James C. Blaine, Supt.

10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles
Mrs. Blanche Deaton, Director of Activities

MASONIC HOME AT DECOTO
Union City, California
Telephone 471-3434
Gail H. David, Supt.

Los Angeles Clubhouse

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

391

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

390

REGIST RATION AND MILEAGE PAYME NTS

(All Brethren listed are Past Masters unless otherwise indicated)
Mlle.
No. of
Mile.
No. of
Allow
Representatives
Allow Lodge
/?epresentative:s
Lodge
19 ....W . K. McMullin, SW.......... 10.92
L..K. L. C. Dorkin_g_._M .............. $
M. E. Hoxie, JW
J. A. Jarmuth, SW
J. J. Mcintosh
F . A . Gyorgy, JW
20.... R. W . Reynolds. M ...... ......... 12.01
H. Mueller, COrg.
R. W . Lenau, SW
E. C. Lohmeyer, lnsp.
M . R. Wilson. JW
V. Bennehoff
H. N . Richards. GI.................. 12.0i
P. Cowgill
D. M . Cameron, Insp............. 12.04
B. Q. Engle
R. V. Ander.son
J. Hurst
DJ· Morrow
D. E. Marsh
J. . Shrader
J. F . M~y.lr.
H. T. Silvius, Jr.
H. M. McKin ey
R. L. Zehrbach
D. A. McLeod
21....H. Hong. M .................... ....... 285.09
S. C . Shenk
L.P.Fuddy .SW
D. Thomson
F. Bolte, lnsp ..................... ...... 285.09
22 ....0. G. Voight, M
31.22
A. Tho maslan, SW
12.01
····
""s~··············
t.'3'~cl~~'.
3....
D. L. Batten
L. R. Frichette
D. R. McDaniel, JW
K. J. Jacob
S. Dennis. Jr.
R. S . Kimbell
5.04
5....W. E. Driver, M....................
R. Mohr. Jr.
R. C. Mastin, Jr., JW
L. E. Patton
0. F. Carinter, 1nsp............. 4.34
R. A. Wertsch
23....H. L. Rhodehamel. M............ 20.02
SW.................. 18.34
8...
SW
W. A .
D. M . Stewart. Jr.
9....F. J. Jaquay, JW.................... 16.80
20.02
7.00
10 ....R. 'r. Kelley, M .................... ..
R. M. F-ord. SW
24... 1.~~~~~~:·sv:i··-............. 23.1 0
R. T. Rea. JW
L.B. Mark
23.10
..
R. L. Wing
6.58
12 ....K. D. Kinney. M ....................
19.32
C . M. Evensen. SW
25 ....
C. K. Evans. JW
JW
Hoffacku,
G.
.
6.58
C. Kernan. lnsp........
L. B. Butt
R. F. Atwood
E . Walker
H . W. Cliff
26.... . P. Dassonville. M ...~······· 18.48
{.vW. Leger
W. H . Drain, SW
13.... . H . Lambert. M................ 20.72
E. E. Billigmeier. JW
6.30
14....M. E . Nicoson, M..................
~\..Fi(~j;nsp ................. :..... 18.48
B. F. Badding, SW
W. E. Chaty, JW
R. 0 . W esl............... ....... ...... 18.48
J. P. Goddard
27 ...A G. Smith, SW.................... 36.96
C. E. Maib
30.... R. W . Moore, SW
A. Stettler
F. A. Kujawa, JW
16.... R. A. Stephell50ll. SW.......... 16.80
L. L. Aslanian
R. E. Harris. JW
R. H. Bradley
W. E. Marshall, lnsp....... ·-··· 16.80
V. L. Bruno
H. Hullen
J. W . McClay ·
17.... H. Pardeilhan. M
32....A. Wildberger, Jr., M............ 15.96
A . Poiree. JW
33... R A. Laythe, SW.. .............. 20.58
A. L. Armand. liup.
35.... G. E . Pledger, M .................... 73.08
P . La.ssalle
R. P. Lechien. SW
B. Pas<knnadji an
J. W . Taylor. JW
ER .................... 27.16
18..

2....~: E. ~~~=d~ii .!.~:.............

6:

1~: ~~ban.

.;.erdoo.

;;:'·J~rl~'.ei~:. .....................

1:..... . . . . .

8: ~·le~:~~
j: E.:~~hr~~sw·················
b

J: ev~P~s.

MUe.
No.of
Allow
/?epresenta tivu
Lodfle
N. T. Thorp. JW
W . A. Revitt, SGD................ 12.04
L. D. Armstrong
0. H . Wulf
59 ....R. J. Wakeman, SW- ............ 24.22
60.... R. L. McDonald, M ............. . 31 .36
R. L. Payne, l nsp ................... 31 .36
0 . A . Myers
61....N. D. Tanksley, M
D. B. Challgren. SW
A. Burris, JW
. E . Dayton, DGM
H. A. Berman
H.J. Bronsdon
F . Emerson
L. J. Fischl
J. I. Gilbert
12.04
G. T. Jatho
4.76
R. I. Jones
R. M. Mills
C . A. Severin
G . F. West
R. W. Winters
B. W olfe. SW.................... 15.40
64
i.76

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Representatives
Lodge
]. L. Shell, PGM.................... 73.08
S. F. Bolger, lnap................... 73.08
A. J. Fulkerson................. ..... 73.08
M. Ortlieb ...... ·-···· ................... 73.08
P. J. H. Rickon
M. B. Ross............ ........... ....... 73.08
R. Grisham. SW.............. . 44.38
J.
....
37
38....R. G. Politte, M ...................... I0.08
R. C. Johnson, SW
S. P . Clarke, JW
R. L. Mayfield
A. J. Thorp
10.08
E. W . Trefts...................
40 ···rE.ih't'k.i~\kr M.................. 12.04
R. G . Crowdis, JW
A. B. Collier. fnsp,................
41....K. W. Knowles, M ...............
G. W. Taylor. SW
D. W. Knisley, JW
R. L. Evans
H . D. Ly ford
D. A. Nelson

i2'ZW~bt;···· ···········.

'1 2....H . Greenspan, M.................... 56.42
M. H. Pollak. SW
H . J. Geller, JW
M. M. Codon......... ................. 56.42
P. B. Florio
E. A. Fromsky
M . Schwartzma n
B. Weiss
43 ... ~- ~:~!~:.'h~················· 18.20
44 ....J. W. Bradshaw, M
E. L. Bostic, SW
H. S. Swierstra. JW
G. M. Travis
'15 ....G. W . Klotz, ER............... ..... 51.66
'~.6~i~e~W. ............... ...... 12.60
46 ...

k:

1_

50.... R. Daley. SW........................ 23.80
51....T . Steel, ER............... ............ 19.04
6.72
55 ....G . 0 . Harvey. M................. ...
S. M . Emerson. SW
K. M. Battell, JW
A. Digerud
E.G. Long
56 ....H. H . Ward, JW........ .. ....... 20.02
57 .... H. P. Adams, M.................... 7.56
P. E. Marvin. SW
L. H. Doda, JW
J. L . Durnford
C. E. Hoke
G. W. McDermott
R . A. Miller
J. W. Riehl
58 ....R. H . H ewitt. M........ ........... 12.04
R. C. Ryan, SW .

l

·l

A".1i.cPe~~~~~· /~ . .............

18.34
R. Johnson
68 ....W. R. Coale, M ............ ........ . 10.92
B. L. Walter, SW
L. F. VanBuskirk . JW
A. V. Abbott
70....K. M. Hopper, SW............... . 16.52
E. H . Liston
76.... J. A. Kirby, ER ..................... . 19.60
78....S. F. Gale, SW................... .. . 17.50
79 ....J. H . Spittler, SW .................. 39.76
J.M. Bowersox, JW
80...E. Relvas. SW.................... 17.08
H . . Coney
81. ... W. P. Reiff. SW.................... 11.76
M . G . Fletcher. JW
H. L. Latimer
W. P. Wilson
84 .. .W. S. Hornbeck, SW............ 26.0i
7.. .K. J. Wales, M ..... - .............. . 4.34
1. J. Nichols, Jr. , SW
R. R . Prigge. JW
J. Anderson
M. C. Baker
J. K. Cothran
M . I. Dawson
E. C. Fugler
R. A. Neely
H. E. Newcomb
J. G. Nichol
J. Olson
A. L. Parfet
E . D. Smith
B. C. Whiteley
B. Wtchels

65 ....

l

392

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mile.
Representatives
Allow
89 ....H. E. Custis, M------·····-·······--- 19.46
W . E. Bennett, SW
L. R. Edwards, JW
N. G. Kerhoulas
91....J. H . Heide. SW...................... 46.48
93.... R. B. Duer, M........................
9.24
0. 0. Martin, SW
95 .... R. L. Fry
98 .... W. E . Lathrop
99.... G. C. Barrett, M ................_. 17.92
C. M. Cleary, SW
A. R. Schottky
101....E. L. Waggoner. M .............. 20.86
R. H. Lynn, Sr., JW
T . J. Edwards
H. W. Haberkorn
103.... D. Murrish. SW.................... 20.72
D. K. Ba ldwin, Insp............... 20.72
S. K. Parker
104 .... M. W. Christensen. SW...... 58.24
. H . Carson. JW
. L. Craven
JJ.V.
Craven
W.W. Frank
106.... R. D. Hess, SW...................... 40.88
S. A. Webster, lnsp............... 40.88
J.E. Morto n. Jr.
110. ... C . G. Brown, M ...................... 12.60
C. R. Baxter, SW
R. T. Skillicorn. JW
111...l ~: ~~~i'e.~w··············· 22.68

No.of
Lod{le

tAM~i~~~r·J~M.................. 22.68
\v~e:~'B~~~l1~~---··················

E. A. Tonningsen
112....W. L. Waggle. Jr., SW........
113....H . H. Bloomfield, M
R. P. H uffman. SW
E. E. Ross, Insp.
117.... H . F. Schultze, SW..............
D. A. Franke, JW
S . I. Bonn, lnsp.......................
M.C. Davis
120... .L. I. Goldkind, M
I. C. Mintz, SW
M. Stone. JW
R. A. Klinger. Insp.
I. A. Berliner
H. W.Cahn
A. Farber
R. E. Gilbert
M. A. Harband
B. J. Katz
H . E. Rudee
H. S. Simon
L. J. Simon
A. I. Stoll
C. L. W eeks

22.68
14.98

12.04
12.04

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
122....C. E. Miller. M ..................... . 3.50
R. A. Harris, SW
W . H . Moran, Jr., JW
R. M . Hinds, Insp .................. . 3.50
P. Floyd
D. P. Halstead. Jr.
123 ....

~: l/P~t~~~- M........................

N. W. Petersen. SW
A. W. Robertson, JW
R. C. Jensen
124....E. G. Mathes, SW................
B. R. Gillett
J. F. Presley
126.... s. B. Leighty, M ....................
W. V . Compton, SW
E . B. Garrison
R. M. Hilton
C. J. MacKenzie
127....W . H . Arden, M
F. Guerr, SW
0. P. Bachmann
W . Haag
H . Hauschildt
A. G. Matthes
W. Schumacher
128.... L. R. Trout, M ....................... .
D . G. Creager, SW
B. P. Kellmann. JW
J. B. Lawson, Insp ................ .
H . C. D avis
E . S. King
129.... E . H . G. Dennett
131....E. 0. Jordon, M ..................... .
G. C. Gauntt, SW
E. A. Covell
P.R. Mayer
132 ....H. Petzwal. ER ..................... .
134.... G. D. Thompson, M ..............
T. F. Kirkpatrick, SW
135....A. E . Downer, JW............... .
136....L. H . Sucherman. M
H. L. Anixter. SW
N. L. Waxman, Jr .. JW
B. Colan
S. C . Levin
H . W. Ross
L. H . Sable
139.... K. A. Howard, M
C. W . In~mirc, SW
J.B. Bouick, JW
W. A. H. Fleischer
W. J. H arlow, Jr.
G. Jensen
C. S. McGlothlin
B. White, Jr.
140....J. L. Lyons, M ........................
W.R. Carter, S W
W. C. Clark, JW
I 41....Not Represented

9.80

23.10
7.70

31 .36
31.36

13.30

31.64
7.56
13.02

Mile.
No.of
A llow
Lodge
Representatives
143....T. Horsky, Jr., M .................. 12.46
M. T. S ullivan, SW
R. E. Burdg. Insp ............
12.04
G . B. Waterworth
14·1....P. G. Fairlie. M
C. T . H ecker, SW
E. T. Mancuso. JW
P . F.Bakk
W. S. Davis
G.D. Gavin
H . H. Hutchison, Jr.
T. R. Smiley
A. J. Swank
M. R. Watson
145 ....R. A. Goodenough, SW ........ 7.28
H . T. M urphy. JW
R. Francke
C. W.Kawa
146....J. 0. Raffety, M ................... . 16.38
J. A. Baskerville. SW
G. R. Sutherland, JW
A. E. Thirltill. lnsp ................ . 16.38
147.... R. P. Barnwell, JW............... . 37.24
149... .D. 0 . Rogers. M ............. ..... . 37.80
E. G. V anTassell. lnsp ........ . 37.80
150.... J. W. Nield . Sr .. SW...... ... 24.08
156.... F. Carrion, M ......................... . 11.34
C. Still, JW
161....D. R. E vick, SW................... . 16.1 0
F . 0 . Van Shaiack
164....R. D . Higgins, JW................ 28.84
J. R. Lamb
166.... J. Falconer, M
D.R. G riffith, SW
L. W. T. Gray. JW
R. E. Flathmann
J. C. Kohlbecher
H. F. Lutticken
R. Taylor
167.... W . Neal, M ........................... . 4.62
F. Machon, SW
D. Ferguson, JW
168....W. C. Clarke M .................... 3.64
R. P. Sims. SW
R. J. H ackenberger. JW
D.Adam
J. D . Lomax
169 .... H. H. Cunningham, M
A. S. Astor. SW
W. H . Kahrau, JW
R. A. H ebert
J. E. H ursh
R. D. Lintner
113
14.00
~v~C:Ta";/1w

····{;.r

12.32

...................

H.P. W ackman, JW
T. A . Daley, lnsp.................. .
G . M. Beeman
174....J. B. Barclay, SW..................

14.00
17.78

393

Mile.
No. of
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
175....D. M. Wentworth, M ........... . 6.44
J. Jobs. SW
V. W. Allen, JW
J. R. Ledbetter, lnsp ............. ..
6.44
D. Yasser
178.... . E. Boggs. M ................... . 63.56
C. E. Moore, SW
T . E. Benson
J. G ipson
D. J. McLarty
179....D. N. Wade, M ..................... . 21.84
W. M. Johnson. JW
F. A. Valentine. Insp ............ . 21.84
F. L. Strelow
180.... H . S. Louden. M ................... .
5.32
P. E. Drake, SW
R. D . Cochran, JW
J. Keller, Jr .. Insp.................. .
5.32
W. B. King
E. J. Mogel
J. C . Werner
18 1....H. H. Spomer, M ..................
8.82
A. McCracken, SW
B. S . Gray, JW
J. W. Wright, Insp ............... 7.56
C. C. Doane
L. Du Bose
G. A. Gillette
J. D. Gillette
182....Not Represented
183....B. R. Lang, M ..................... .
14.98
H. I. Ketterman
184.... A. M. Strang, ER ............... .
30.38
185.... R. T. Andersen . SW.............. 18.06
A. R. Richardson................... . 14.00
186.... N. F . Swickard, SW.............. 48.1 6
187 ....B. H . Clark, M ........................ 11.20
J. J. Clark, SW
F. R. Mason
188 ....J. T. H ill, M
L. P. Boyles, SW
G . W. Ruuth, JW
V . D.Amold
M. L. Graves
N. S. H armon
S. F. Sea
190.... H. J. Burwell, SW.............. .. 32.20
19 1....H. P. Boerst, M
R. W. Troutman, Jr., JW
J. V. Bacigalupi
L. H. Hicks
J. C. Meagor
W. M. Vanderbilt
192....W. H. Bottelsen, SW ............ 47.60
H . F. Lewis, JW
R. H . Paine, lnsp ................... 47.60
W.W. Pitkin
C. E. Melander
193....0. A. Bartlett, ER.................. 38.36

W

39i

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
194.... G. Gilliam. M......................... .
5.18
W. G. Fogleman, SW
W. L. Erichsen
W. Grubb
S. Hawks
E. Neff
195.... ot Represented
196....J. W. Wailes, SW ............... . 31.36
198 .... A. J. Conrad, M..................... . 59.50
K. E. Diffee. SW..... .......... 59.50
C. T. Downey. JW
T. F. Mason .......................... 56.00
199....R. C. Zastrow, SW............... . 17.22
G. de Ghetaldi, lnsp ........ ...... . 18.48
200.... L. W. Ferdinand. Jr., M ....... . 26.74
W. N. Pope, S\V
\V. E. Philippi, lnsp.............. 26.74
J. D. Anderson
C. Ri<:h, Jr.
20 1 ... F. T. Stevens, SW.. _____________ _ 9.10
D. Tama, JW
H. Pearson
202 .... E. L. Dunn, M .......... .
56.42
R. C. Hart, SW
L. Johnson, JW
. M. Gordon
W.R. Hervey, Jr.
J. L. N elson
H. E. Sargent
203 ...R. B. Hays, M ..................... . 14.70
F. Q. Jing
204 ... B. J. Gerbrandt, M _______________ _ 15.12
A. Schoch, SW
M. Michalec, JW
W. J. Smith, Sr., lnsp ........... 15.12
205 ....L. J. Berry, M......................... . 23.52
B. R. Price, SW
M. A. Salado. Jr .. JW
F. G. Hollenberg, GBB _________ _ 22.68
J. S. Babb, lnsp...................... . 23.52
206 ....L. M. Johnson, SW . ............. . 12.74
W. L. Hurd, lnsp .................. . 14.56
0. B. Chamberlain
207.... V. E. Key. SW...................... 60.34
D. N. Cairns, JW
A. B. Cross, Insp.................. . 60.90
H. E. Kirk
208.... H. C. Brown. M... ·--···-·--····---- 9.52
D. N. Baker, SW
A.H. Hollenbeck
209 . .. H. W. Austin, M ............... ..... 32.48
J. L. Rankin, SW
G. R. Wiech, JW
C. J. Weir, Jr., Insp .............. . 32.48
I. 0. Compton
H. S. Franklin
H. J. Stornetta
210 . W. E. Stovall, M. _________________ _ 7.00
P. Robinson, SW
W.W.Fox,JW

L

.
J

Mile.
No."of
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
F. D. Eaton
B. Folendorf
R. L. Norton
L. H. Stotesberry
21 L. ..H. A. Hermansen. ER ............ 13.30
212 ....E. S. Morningstar, M
F. L. Holmes, SW
L. G. Lewis, JW
A.H. Hufnagel
C. J. Palmer
214 ....H. F. Scheeler, M.................. 51.21
C. D. Strimple. SW
N. J. Mead
215 ...L. Stickney. M
W. J. Hay, SW
G. Beck, JW
P. Harris
E. A. Johnson
A. L. Murray
216.... J. H. Wickenhiser, SW
H. l. Lee, JW
I. W. Coburn. PGM
S. I. Jacobs
L. S. Lurie
217.... H. J. Muir, M ......................... . 16.38
D. M. Kueny, SW
R. N. Ponce, JW
E. M. Dreyer
218 ....R. A. Famariss, M ................. . 5.60
C. \V. Weare, SW
220.... E . G. Ketchum, M ................. . 58.52
vV. V. Ritchie. SW
C.R. Hutchinson, JW
C. T. Shirley, lnsp................ . 58.52
221.. ..J. M. Ferren. M ..................... . 60.20
W. C. Riesen. SW
W. E. Caipen. JW
T. E. Barrows
J.B. Fair
M. E. Nilius
222 ....H. S. Ford, SW..................... . 14.56
J. V. Duggan, JW
224 ....J. T. Radman, M.................... 40.46
R. A. Griffith, SW
A. P. Townsend, JW
J. C. Carpenter, lnsp ............ . 40.46
G. G. Laiblin
J.C. Mitchell
225 ....E. W. John.son, M
I. Magnes
226 ....G. E. W atts, M
K. M. Thompson. SW
R. W . Gaines. JW
R. E. Giesin
A. J. Mercer
228 ....F. E. Franklin, SW............... . 10.08
R. R. Haussler
S. W. Smith
229 ....R. H. Nivarel, M.............. '. .... . 4.34
V_ E. Stainer, SW

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Repre$entatives
Allow
F. M. Fralick
R. 0 . Gloeckner
G. A. Heinzman
R. C. Jones
D. H. Maclean
H . A. Mini, Jr.
R. H. Nivarel
W. D. Peden
E. B. Pierce, Jr.
E. N . Sanders
C. E. Shoaf
S. A . Stephens
230.... M. C. Stowe, SW.................. · 18.76
D . G. Waller. JW
C. B. Campbell. AGL............ 18.76
E. D. Price ·
231.. .. Not Represented
232 .... R. Sargent, SW...................... 39.06
233 ....A. E. Enderlin, M.................. 10.36
A. J. Friedland, SW
234....R. A. Scolari, ER .................... · 35.70
235 .... F. R. Page, ER...................... 53.48
236.... M. A. Atkinson, SW............ 14.42
A. T. Kiersch
237 ....F. 0. Sherrill, SW________________ 33.04
H. R. Gewe
J. Jenkins
240....W. G. Davison, ER.............. 17.36
241....G. Kinzer, M.......................... 60.90
W. E. Stiles. SW
N. Thompson, JW
242 .... M. R. Andrews, M................ 47.60
R. E. Ellis, SW
H. A. Dunham, JW
243. ... M. E. Yoder, M:..................... 3.78
W. H. Mitchell, SW
R. E . Gilbert, JW
A. R. Fleming, Insp.
H.J. Keim
W. T . Smith
244 .... W. M. Autry, M
A. J. Cole. SW
K. E. Bain, JW
L. K. Bain
A. A. Campbell
J. G . Sjoberg
N. Soutar
245 ... .D. M. Gummow, SW............ 20.44
246 ... .R. L. Soper, M........................ 61.04
D. W. Worden, SW
K. E. Himmler, JW
E. C. Lowe, lnsp................... 61.60
247 ....G. W . Warner, M................ 25.62
P. E. W offord, SW
H. A. McCargar, Jr., JW
G . E . Hiatt
J. L. Stewart, Jr.
W. H. Towne
248 ....Not Represented
250....Not Represented

395

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
253-...F. B. Radebaugh, SW.......... 10.92
A. L. Hayes, [nsp................... 10.92
25·L.R. L. Hickey, M.................... 30.38
C. S. Prickett, SW
A. A. Bryce.son, Insp............. 30.38
A. F. Ross
G. W. Sturm.......................... 30.38
255-...R. A. Dorman, SW................ 29.82
S. F. Passley, ln.sp................. 30.80
256....J. E. Luce, M.......................... 13.16
C. A. Lewis, SW
E. M. Ehrhardt
258....W. G. Barnes. M................... 15.96
R. E . Denton, SW
A. 0. Healy, JW
R. E. Naramore
R. L. Tudsbury, lr.
259.... J. B. Morgan, M.................... 64.40
C. E. Wester, SW
M. I. Brewer, JW
W. H . Price, AGL.............. 64.40
S. L. Channon, Insp............... 64.40
W. M. Copeland
260....N. A. Verreos, M
E. M. Pavlou, SW
E. D. Keller, JW
E. S. Hopp, JGW
U. G. Patropulos, lnsp.
R. E. Soracco, Insp............... 21.14
B. C. von Konsky, Insp.
L. F. Anderson
H. E. Bennett, Sr.
G. A. Benoit
A. S. Cohen
S. J. Dean, Jr.
H. C. Evangelista
W . W. Grundel
A. C. von Konsky
A. R. Logasa
A. 0. Rier
F. B. Scullin
W.H. White
J. Wullschleger ...................... 4:t8
261....E. J. Worsley, ER.................. 15.96
262 ....W . M . White, ER................ 40.18
264....R. A. Olson, M...................... 33.04
P. S. Sword. SW
L. L. Grabil, JW
265 ....W. P. Romer, ER.................. 21.70
267.... H. A. Caster
268....T. J. Whitten, M
W. P. Kell, SW
R. T. Wilson, JW
N. 0. Millar, fusp.
O. l. Brown
T . V. Giantvalley
R. D. Gilmore
M. L. Jory
C. Ratkovich
F. T . Smeider
G. Thomson

396

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Repre~ntative.i
Lodge
269....W. H . Jeter, M ...................... 31.78
M . Nalbandian, SW
271....M . E. Murphy, ER................ 21.70
C. A. Butler
272 .... F. V. Griffin. M...................... 57.54
C. L. Elliott. SW
C. F. Wyndham, JW
H. Archibald
R. T. Merriam........................ 57.54
273....W. A . Samson, M .................. 58.38
R. A. Smith. SW
C. A. Flint. JW
R. H. Henderson
T. M. Newtso.n
R. L. Williams
D. A. Wilson
274. ..R. R. Coggeshall, SW.......... 34.72
R. G. Ba iley, JW
H. 0. Pope, Jr .. lnsp............. 34.72
275 ....A. 0. Hinkley. SW................ 13.30
277.... L. H. Roam, SW.................... 27.72
F. A. Campbell. JW
P. J. N ielsen
278.... L. E. Gautier, M.................... 56.'12
W . J. Cook
F. D. Galvery
H . V . Spender
279.... G . C. Cypert. SW............... .. 29.96
P.R. Lee. JW
280.... ~kJ:d:a~~-. .jw·············· 22.s1

b.

28 1....C. D. Rau. ER........................ 28.84
282.... L. Simonic, ER...................... 12.74
283 .... R. P. Clark, M ........................ 73.64
J. H . Pearson, SW
E.. C. 'Wright. Sr.
285 ....V. L. Ma thison, SW............ 27.16
286....T. Kinne. SW............................ 28.42
P. L. Turoer, Insp.................. 28.42
287.... R. A. McConnell. SW.......... 53.90
W . W. Partridge, lnsp......... 53.90
288....L. S. Silva, SW.................... 17.22
289....D. L. Hales, SW.................... 66.08
H. G. Habenicht
L. W. Hales
290....H . L. P. Wessel, M-·············· 56.42
T . F. Joy. SW
C . C. Cadman
G. P. Cashion
J. A. Crosby
C. C. Orrell
J. W. Sprouse
291....C. R. Ma rshall. SW.............. 53.48
E. S. Ziehmer, JW
E. M. Shively
292....J. C. Mason, M ...................... 7.42
L F. Stebbins, SW
G. L. H aU,JW
R. J. Fisher

Mile.
No. of
Repre~ntatlvu
Lodge
Allow
293 ....J. R. Craft, M ......................... . 60.62
M. W. Gould, SW
R. S. Huggins, JW
294....E. &ajlan. M ......................... . 28.42
P . P. Johnson, SW
R. N. Rouch
295 ....C. L. Wadlow, M .................. 9.66
G. F. King. SW
D.R. Orton, JW
L. C. Chenoweth
W. C. Chenoweth
296.... L L. Davis. Jr., SW ............. . 73.08
297 .... K. R. Bums. SW................... . 37.91
R. C. Harris
J. A. M artin
299 .... ~l~1Wman, M ............... . 6.30

t'.

C. J. Grant
300....C. E. Anderson. SW..............
R. L. W eaver, JW
K . Dowell, lnsp...................... .
C. P. Patton
301....W . H . Figgins. M ................. .
E . R.Gilbertson,SW
W. F. Nelson. JW
E.W. Ogden
302....W . R. Jones. ER ....................
303....A. G. Wright, M ....................
E. S. Rouch, SW
J. M. Lewis, JW
F. T. Belton
J. I. Medlin
R. D . Mishler
M . c. Santry
304 .... D . S. Powel, M ..................... .
305

···-~: 6.~:tc~~s~·;;:·sw.......

G. E. Berresford
306.... B. R. Brin, SW....................... .
307.... W. R. Ringwald. M ............. .
L. C. Vaughn, JW
P. C. Bruce
308.... R. A. Foote. M ..................... .
N . E. Kjos. SW
309.... H . T . Hofman, M ................. .
\V. Billingsley. SW
R. E. Opely, JW
W. J. Taylor, Jr.
310.... C. B. Frank. SW..................
312 .... L. E. Lewis, M ..................... .
A . C. Miller, JW
T . C. Conwell
313.... H. J. Hooper. Jr., JW ........... .
314....G. B. Wilcox, SW.............. ..
R. G. Smith. JW
315 .... E. T. Kelgwin, SW ..............
F. R. Myllo, Jr.. JW
316.... L. J. Green, ER .....................
W. E. Burk. ..·-···- ·····---····
L. J. Green, Jr,

64.40
65.52
60.76

21.14
34.86

28.56
59.50
64.68
56.14
58.52
36.26

39.20
17.64
46.34
63.00
58.52
27.72
27.72

Mile.
Representatives
Allow
Robinson, SW............. . 70. 70
. W. Belford, lnsp.............. . 70.70
318.... . Green. M-························· 19.32
319
56.42
.. ·-~. ~-- ~g~lfar~:-sw·········
~ H . Duncan, JW
. T . Kiele, Insp..................... 56.42
C. E. Follendore
F. R. McCoy
H. W . Noble
T . J. Owens, Jr.
U . Rostagno
320....W. J. Creighton, Jr., .M........ 56.42
R. B. Hall, SW
M . A. Green............................ 56.42
R. H. Longshore
D. H. Terry
J. W . Wheeler
C. A. Winslow
321.. .. C. L. Hellen, M...................... 5.46
L. J. Seiferth, SW
H . C. Hansen
322 ....J. E. Mattison, M.................. 57.i O
'r. D. Atkins, Jr., SW
C. 0. Dice, Jr., JW
F. M. Freeborn
E. S. Higbie............................ 57.54
323 ....J. P. Sasseen, M.................... 57.82
C. F. Pernick, SW
324....E . W. Wiegel. SW.............. 57.54
J. A. Dosier, JW
C. Hubbell
325 .... A. T. Tubaugh, SW............ 71.12
T. W. Eckford
326...J J. T~lor M......-................... 79.66
327.... . E. lits. M........................ 60.06
J. S. Kennedy. SW
R. E. H. CoOper, JW
H. Ferguson, Insp............. 60.06
R. Armor
. C. Bracht
G. P. Calderwood
G. C. Gordon
H. G. Van Dyke
328....Q. H. Cunningham, SW...... 59.22
M . D. Fellows, JW
D . J. Shoemaker, Insp........... 57.26
W . 0. Wade
329 .... N. Hosoi, SW........................ 56.42
J. Des Forges, lns-p............... 59.64
A. Caen
330....Y. Saigo, SW..........·-····-···· 325.29
331.... H . H. Rule. M .·-·····-····........... 17.08
P. W. Hellman, GP.............. 16.80
A. Bakhin, lnsp..................... 17.08
E. A. Cope
332 ....R. L. Inlow, M........................ 60.20
M. Perdok. SW
M. B. Burgess. JW
C. B. H. Bramier

No. of
lodge
317....

LT.

...

k

397

No.of
Mile.
Allow
Repre.ientattves
lod(le
333....R. A. Lesher, SW.................. 41.30
334....C . C. Cockrell, M ................. . 59.64
W. D. Burkett. SW
"J.;,yF. Steiger. JW
. C. Bates. Insp ................ . 59.08
335 .... N. Steinore, SW ................... . 56.43
V. N. Roberts, JW
336.... M. R. Hansen. M
G. E. May, SW
W. W. W ildman, JW
B. 0. Young, GT
H.K. Taylor
J. W . Hansford
P . A. Brom
R. D. Rhicn
D. A. Turpin
R. C . Horstmann
337... .D. Simpson, M ..................... .
3.92
R.H. Reeder. SW
J. B. McWhorter, JW
338.... E. 0. Wright, M .................. 68.60
339.... W. F . Wall. M ....-................. 60.20
L. G. Lindsey, SW
\V. L . Currie
341.. .. R. W . Tozier. M ................... . 52.64
J. J. Ritch. SW

~: ~~Y~~~/~sp . . . . . . ..........

52.64
W . J. W atts
343 ....W . L. Bacon, M .................. .. 52.92
I. M. Forbes. SW
F. R. H offman. Jr .. JW
R. G. Wieser
344 .... E . H . Brown, M
A. M. Lesser. SW
A. P. Breslauer. PGM
C. Becker
H . Curtis
G. G. H awxhurst
M. V . lgnot:z:
B. J. Joseph
B. A. Katz
A. Salomon
H. L. Wayne
A. C. Wollenberg
345....J. A. Nelson, JW....................
7.Bi
346.... J. G . Meredith. M ..................
4.48
H. N. Swift. SW
G . Lew. JW
. H . Anderson. PGM..........
4.48
J. F . Roberts, Insp ................. 4.48
J. W . Carl
G. E. King
6.86
A. B. Morten......................... .
347.... E. P. Margherio, M
l. C. McPherson, SW
H. R. Moore, JW
H. M. Reeves, lnsp.
T . Anderson
P. R. De Barrows

l

398

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

No. of
Mile
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
W. E. Richmond
A. C. Rogers
P. Slavazza
348....C. R. Demrnelmaicr, M ........ 63.56
A. B. Gresham, SW ..........
63.56
D. T. Wright, In sp ......
63.56
J.M. Heron
V. N. Hodge
349 .... K. H . Gardner, SW
C. W. Barry, JW
M. D. Coy, lnsp.
D. W. Besoain
H. S. Bigelow
G. C. Courregcs
F . D. G atter
D. M. Hughes
J. W. Proctor
H. S. Savage
K. S. Thomson

351....J. A. Boyle, M ........................ 56.42
G.D. Bloomfield
B. R. Jordan
352 .... J. M indt'll, M .......................... 56.42
H. R. H all, SW
R. V. Sutton, JW
E.G. Bashor
J. Chackerian
J. H . Hardy
R.H . H ead
W . Kludjian
353....R. L. Spinney, M .................. 3.78
H. C. N icho lson
354.... F. W . Traveny, M
H. F. Haines, S\V
J. F. Boltman, JW
J. M. Ruggiero, Insp.
A. L. Croce
E . R. Johnson
W . D. Verbag
E. H. Wilkens
55.44
35 5....J. R. Davison, M...........
b. Thornton, SW
H. J. W o lking, JW
L. E. Anderson, PGM.......... 56.42
E . H . Gebhardt, Insp ................ .56.4 2
W. H. Beaudry
E. L. Gamet
R. T . Gilmore, Jr.
F. E. Green
D. H . Schwimley
356....F. A. Wilson, M
B. A. S tocking, SW
T. P. Trimble 3rd, JW
R. A. D angers
R. K. Mills
H. A. Ronning
K. Seymour

No. of
Mile
Allow
Lodge
R epresentatives
357 ... D. C. Austin, M ........
59.22
J. W. W illis, Jr., SW
T. R. Siems, ln sp................... 60.34
358 .... L. P. Golfos, SW.................. 56.42
J. W. Peyton, JW
B. Me yer. Jr., Insp ............... .. 56.42
H. A. McF rye
C. 0. Smith
359.... Not represented
360.... W . C. Bird
A. F. E nderlin
R. \V. Haun
K. W . Hinkle
E. C. Mathisen
H. D . Oliphant
M. T. Simmons
0. von Raven
361....A. R. Matthews, SW............ 23.24
362 ....W. J. Raab, M ..........
6.86
F. G. Nash, SW
J. R. Forster, JW
R. K. F uller
F. W. M itchell
W. H . Scott
363.... 0. H . Bradley, M
E. F. Smith, S W
W . H . Ada ms
R. P. Arnold
0. E. McLean
L. C. Moore
365....R. Dale, SW.......................... 19.60
W.D. Ford
366 ....S. M. Pavlovich, SW............ 25 .62
L. A. Gottner, JW
M. E. Allred
0. C. Olsen
367.... E. M. E rikson. SW.............. 57.82
R. E . LaFreniere, JW
G. W. Roche
P. J. Thompsett
368....R. N. Bates. M. . .................. 56.00
P. W. Zinb nd. SW
A. S. G. Markwick, JW
G. B. Mize, PGM
56.00
W . E . S. Jarrett
H. E . Rathbun
A. F . S immons
369 . .R. H. \ Vallace. M.................. 56.14
D . B. H offman, SW
J. 0 . Anderson, JW
W. T . Betts
M. L. M cdaris
370.... D. R. Sta ll. M
J. Ky rimis, SW
]. F . Bow ley, AGT.... .
4.48
P. A. P flueger, GT
A . Balukia n
E. W . Bode. Sr.

GRAN D LODGE. OF CALIFORNlA

N o . of
M ile
Lodge
R epresentatives
Allow
H. 0 . Hammerich
U. D. Mackins
N. H. N eel
R. H . Sievers
J. K. Wright
371. J. P. Yim , SW ........................ 285.09
C. H . M cAllister, Insp ......... 285.09
G. W. Clark
A . H. Strike
372 ....J. W . Callender, SW............ 58.38
58.38
R. E. Crist, I nsp.............
C. L. Carlson
G. C unning ham
J. D. Sparks
373 ... E. W. Brana um, M................ 56.42
M. J. Winn, SW
J. P olak. JW
H . W . H asbrouck
374 . .. L. H . D avis, M
K. L. Newkirk, SW
H . S. Stein. Jr., JW
J. H. Adams
P. M. Bovero
B. F. Fisher
R. H . Johnston
H . H . Schultz
L. H. S ilberman
P . C. T udor
W . Van Ornum
375 .... P. B. Kerr. M
A. E. Cook, SW
J. H. Conner
M . W . Erickson
M. McCubbin
G. Pape
L. J. Schell
C. Trethewey
F . W isherop
376 .... J. A. Mannon, M
E. A. Sandber'il· SW
G. M . H enry, JW
E . L. Al mquist
B. J. H jerpe
58.94
377.... W. L. Lindner, SW
C. F. H ammer, JW
56.42
378 ....H. E. Lewis, SW. ..
R. S. T ucker, JW
G. W. Pe rkins, lnsp. ..
54.32
379.... J. Starnes. SW...................... 54.88
380.... E . E. Burnes, M .................... 62.44
H. G. Early, SW
381....W. B. Bayless, SW........... ... 68.32
M. W. F olsom, JW
382.... R. N. Richa rdson, M
56.4 2
C. M . W ilson, SW
B. Hubbard , JW
P. F . Boyer
J. R. D uke
383 ....F. M. Benson, M.................... 29.26
W . E . W ilson, SW

399

No. of
M ile
Lodge
Representatives
A llow
384....E. N. D. Hatch, ER. ............. 86.24
E. W. H eald, PGM .............. 86.24
R. C. Reeder, Insp ................ . 86.24
D. Di xon
N. P . T ester
385....H. S. Leong, SW........... .... 29.54
F. 0 . S tevenson. JW
C. L. Fraser. Insp ............... 29.54
387....F. F. Brown, ER ....... .
29.12
F. W . Spear
M . F. Spurlock
388 ....J. E . Finley, Jr., M
J.C. Tracy, SW
F. E . Lang , Jr. , JW
J. E. F inley. Insp.
G. K. C randall
W. A. Fager
K. E. Ho pper
L. R. Lawrence
J. F. Palmer
R. E . Petersen
H . D. Robertson
389 ... D. McConne ll, M ..
60.06
P. R. Ba iley. SW
C. J. Morrett, J\V
H. M. C ronquist
J. E. Reese
390....T . G. Williams, JW............ .. 84.84
391....I. C. E kman, ER ................... . 19.46
W . H. Fiske, AGL.. ............. . 19.46
W. D . Archer
392 .... A. J. Day. M ....... .
56.42
P. V. Moffat. S\V
V. Peyton. JW
L. V . Smith, lnsp . ................. 58.IO
F . R. Brunner
N . A . Henderson
V . E. Mitchell
J. A . S ickenberger.. ............... . 63.98
393.... B. E. Carlson, M
F . H. Beck, SW
C. H. Mikelson. JW
H . F rench, Insp.
L. W . Johnson
H. T. A. Olsson
O . A .Swansen
394.... W. A. T ully .... .. .................. 59.22
R. L. Holtan, SW
G. D. Atkinson, JW
57.82
F . E. C utler, G MR L.. ..... .
53.38
M. E. Smith. GM .......... .
R.R. Atkinson
R. W . Emmert
W . T. Lisenby, Jr.
56.42
F. W . Morris .................. .
E . L. Schwamb
395.... P. Clark, M ...............- .......... . 14.56
W . H. Bro wn. SW
C. N. Matsen

400

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile
No.of
Mlle.
Lodge
Repre&entatlve3
Allow Lod{le
Repre$enfative&
Alloatr
39L.C. J. Dempsey. M
410....R. A . Hearsum. M
A . W . Hanson, SW
A. C. Aserdon, SW
R. B. Slangerup. JW
S. B. Scidmore,, JW
A. Johnson, Ins_p.
S. A. Barakos
W. S. Parker, Jr.
R. M. McHale
D . P. Russell
S. H. Smith
R. A. Stanley
397....0. R. Line, M.......................... 57.12
W.W. Wilcox, Jr.
D. F. Mayhew, SW
41 J....E. A. Pascoe. SW................ 66.36
M. L. Thompson, JW
P. V. Struble, JW
A. A. Dowers, losp............... 57.12
399....0 . D. Russell, M .................... 7.00 412 ....Not Represented
414....T. J. Vanderkilt, SW........... . 56.42
C. P. Miescke, SW
415 ... 1':. Pasquale, M.................... 55.44
A. W ong. JW
M. Edwards, SW
400....W. C. Krutman. M
S. Zaid, JW
W. B. Taylor, SW
I. Shulkin, lnsp...................... . 54.60
W. G . Ferguson, JW
V. A. Gatewood
W. E. Provence
M. Jackson
40 1....G. R. Smoot, M
416....P. W. Vollmer, M ................ 33.16
0 . 0. Miller, SW
J. B. Thompson. SW
B. F. Bryant, JW
b. S. Parfitt, JW
C. W. Bishop
A. A. Daniels. Insp ............. 3H6
M. C. Buckley
417....T. S. Rider, SW.................... 26.18
E. C. Lamp
418.... M. S. Reid. SW.................. 56.i2
D. McFetridge
J. A. Wiley, JW
A.H. Triggs
C. K. Schertle, lnsp............. 56.42
402 ....F. B. Pumphrey, Sr., M........ 83.44
A. L. Smith
419.... K. E. Mathers, SW.............. 61.46
J. D. Slay, SW
G. W . Mason, JW
J. B. Whitehead
M. J. Hanna
403.... P. M . Hayes, M
420.... W . L. Steffen, M .................. 24.78
J. H. Campe, Jr., SW
421....J. M. Allee, M ....................... . 58.10
R. A. Lang, JW
K. H . Grace. SW
D . P. Hewlett
R. C. Harrison, JW
L. S. McElwain
M. B. Burke
404 .... J. A. Newcombe, SW............ 59.78
B. C . Darling
R. C. Odell. JW
J. L. Robertson
G. B. Gordon, Jr.
E.. B. Show
J. Randolph
E. N. Stansel
4-05 ....E . V . Hagadone, M .............. 56.42 422.... J. M. Seitz, H ......................... . 56.i2
L. B. Fenderson, SW
S. E. Paddon. SW
J. I. McGraa, JW
J. E. Calhoun
R. W. Baughn
I. S. Wharton
406....W. A. Osbourne, M.............. 55.44 423....D. C. Grayson, M ................ 57.26
T. J. Preston, SW
E. A. Hunt. JW
H . P. Nichols. JW
424....F. T . Wilson, M .................... 32.90
R. B. Carter
425.... J. M . Dungan, SW.............. 86.66
W. D. Hopkins
426....G. W. Robertson, JW.......... 41.58
R. Sudano
L. S. Brenneman, lnsp........ . il.58
L. C. Van Kirk
E. Carlson
R. A. Smith ............................ il.58
407.... J. R. Heap, M........................ 74.48
i27 ....P. L. Pace, SW .................... 61.04
A. Sta nley, Jr .. SW
E. H . Boardman, JW
i28....D. J. Gillette, SW................ 60.J.i
L. H . Shaw, Insp................... 74.62
M. C. Morrison
A. H. Rodieck
429
t·M~l~~~~·s~··· ················ 5.60
408....E. T. Knowles, M .................. 58.38
J. A. Nau
J.C. Brown
409....G. A. Garinger, SW............ 285.09 430....W. D . Sloan. SW................ 40.32
G. N. Kahapea, Sr., JGS ...... 285.09
P. N. Myers, PGM
R. Edgar
P. W. Lindt, lnsp ................. 37.94

···1

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mlle.
No.of
Allow
Lodge
Reprerentatlves
i31....D . J. Arnett, M
R. F. McDonald, SW
R. E. Wincentsen, JW
E. R. Brooks
W.A.Home
L. N . Mason
J. B. Trimeloni
433.... W. W. Barkley. ER............ 16.94
W. A. Dahling, _Insp ............. 16.52
HL.H. S. Buck, JW................... . 42.56
"135 .... E. G. Freeman, M
G . D. Freeman, SW
W. A. McCallum, JW
P . A. de Vries
W.W. Kiesow
A. P . Labemadie
W . P. Olson
W . K. Raines
T. H . A. Teresi
b . L. West
436.... S. Giuliano, SW.................... 61."16

h'-6:~g~:,·

1:... . .. . . . ..

61.46
437 ....C. 0 . W . Schaub. M ............ 52.50
E . A. White, SW
J. E. Bacon, lnsp .................... . 52.50
W. D. Kniqht
A. J. McCourtney ............... . 5"1.18
V . D . Ward
10.50
H9 ....~:

~·R~:I::.rs~·-·············

Ii.

. ··

F.
Whelan
440.... H . B. Richardson, M
R. D. Erskine: SW
L. F. Benitez. JW
L. Fowler
H . A. Nelson
Hl....R. V. Clark, SW.................. 76.72
E. B. Beck, JW
G. C. Holbert
D. W. Stubbs
442....R. Ballinger. M ..................... . 73.08
L. D. Gillmo re, SW
J. C. Canale, JW
li. M. Kirkland
F. R. Porath
443....C. H. Schwartzman, SW.... 285.09
R. C. Warren
444....F. L. Clawson, SW.............. i8.86
J. H. Sim, JW
R. M. Brown
A. H. Christensen
F. Zanier
H5 .... H . P. Huebner, M............ .... 56.42
R.H . Carroll. SW
M . W. Reed, Jr .. JW
F. E. Clark, losp................. 56.42
A. T . Gruening ...................... 56.i2
H. A. Huebner...................... 56.42

401

Mile.
No.of
Lod{le
Representative11
Allow
446.... J. W . Roberts, M .................... 59.22
C. H . Ulch, SW
F. M. Swanberg, JW
F. E. Zeiler
4'17 ....D. T. Wands, M .................... 59.22
W. J. Rayls, SW
A. C. Ross, JW
L. D. Babcock, lnsp............. 59.22
W. S . Larson
R. 0. Lougee
448 ....H. E. Thornsberry, M ......... . "1 .3"1
C . E. Sisson, SW
J. L. Panos, JW
V . W . Hendrix, AGS
J. L. Carrier
H. B. Herring
G . C. Johnson
G. D . Langridge
449....W. S. Crowell, M
C.R. Menzie, SW
J. E . Mize. JW
R. M . Montgomery, Insp.
R. Duden
J. Ferguson
W . P . Glover
R. K. Huppert
G. W. Maynard
W . G . Menary, Jr.
0. D . P arker
S . L. Solomon
450 ... H . A. Henry. Jr., M ............. . 54.32
E. C. Dunham, SW............ 60.31
E. R. Judd, JW
W. W . Dickson, Jr.. lnsp... .. 54.32
H . S. Morrison..................... . 54.32
R. W . Pettes
\V. H . Pettes
45 1....D. R. Johansen, M ............. . 57.40
J. Ainilian, SW
L. H arrison. JW
F. L . Sutliff, lnsp................ . 56.42
R. R. Beard
B. F . Kearney
M. L. Lamb
152....J. R. Miller, M ...................... 57.51
S. E. Marshall. SW
H. M . Gough, JW
R. N. Grossman
E. Kaminski, Jr.
R. C. Kettle
R. H . R.ittgers
D. G . White
451.. ..F. R. Schroeder, M
D. A . Mowat, SW
F. J. Prisco. JW
T. G. Atwood
B. C oleman
L. 0 . Ginsberg
A . J. Huelse
V. P. McMurdo

402

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Representative~
Lod>1e
A. H. Peterson
E. E. Smith
R. Wieland
455 C. R. Widnes, M
A . P . Bilay
E. B. Brehaut
H . H. Eling
W. M . Lustenbergcr
C.R. MacPhee
N. E. E. Reed
T. W. Rollinson
457....H.Lo.Po~t~~. ~~.................... 57.54
A. G . Robertson. Insp ....... .. 57.54
158.... H. L. Karges. M ................. . 56.42
H . Sweet, SW
A. J. Navin, Insp ........ ..... .. 56.12
W. W. Baskerville
C. E. Beaumont
159....J. A . Rossi. M.- .................. . 12.71
W. A. Collins. SW
C. C. Eastman
160....M. M. Willins, M ................ 8.68
W. E . Hagmeyer, SW
W . Harrison
161....J. C. Lewellen, M
C. Gibbs. Jr .. SW
G. P. Leung, JW
E. A. C aldwell, Insp.
W. C. Holden
R. P. Knox
W . 0. Kuchlenz
S . N. LeFiell
H. A. Lorenzen
F. A. Mosebach
J. A. Steinmetz
462 .... C. R. Harris, M
J. M. Pisias. SW
J.M. Phillips, JW
T . Wu , lnsp.
L. H . Beckendorf
A. B. E pstein
J. F. Jensen
A. J. Kahn
H. D. K!ng
P. Lawson
M. S. Springer
J. W. Warshaw
463 ....T. 0. Schaal, SW ................. . 9.66
L. H . Buchheister, losp........ . 9.66
161.... M. S. Lombardo, M
F. C. Nielsen. SW
W . Butcher
S. G. Clark
D. N. Deane
W . A. Foster
A. E. Hewit
J. R. Titsworth

No.of
Mile.
R epresentatives
Lod>1e
Allow
165.... A. A. O 'Banion, SW......... . 25.62
D. N . L. Keene, JW
S. E. Dollar, losp.......... ....... 25.62
L.B. Anderson
466.... J. 0. Gregoi re. M ........
10.46
C. W . Luick. SW
E. H. Ha lbrook. JW
R. J. Myers
467 ....W . Clove. M............... .. .. 56.12
R. V. C larke, SW
0 . M . Heikkola, JW
468 .... G. E. Warburton, M
M. Clark, SW
Z. V . Miller, JW
H. M. Frostholm
169....L. P . Mmgan, SW........ . ..... 60.62
470....L. Ma nis, M
J. A. Gellmann, SW
C. H. Rothblum, lnsp.
A. Button
M . P . Prince
47 1....J. Reddick, M .................. ..
10.92
C. W. Foster, JW
T . G. Hamma, lnsp......... ... 10.92
D. D. Kitchens, Insp..... .. .... 10.08
G. \V. Graffis
472 ....R. E. Doe, M ....................... 311.49
R. M. Smith, SW
W. E. Foster, lnsp ............... 311.19
473....A. T . Duggin.s, SW............ 88.06
475....R. A. Kelsey, M_............. .. 56.12
L. R. GalJaway
476.... G. H . Britton. M.......... .. .... 74.90
P. J. Green, SW
P. G. Jenkins, JW
R. E. Carlton, lnsp .....
75.32
R. H ager
F. F. Wilson
477 ....F. T. Angleton, M .....
40.88
478... .D. C. Thompson, M
J. F. McElravy. SW
B. M . Burchard. JW
R. W . Beckwith
K. R. Evans
H.F. Hexner
W. H. Nunn
J. F. Prager
R.H. Stitt
0. T. Stone, Sr.
E. C . Van de Mark
479.... ~. ~~i~~~~~M..................
H . E. Carlsen, JW
L. E. Allen
J. S. Hasen
R. W . Scott
180....L. J. Bishop, M
R. E. Crosser, SW
D. Simpson, JW

7.00

Mile.
No.of
Allow
Representatives
Lod>1e
181 .... E . F. Pierce, M
G. F . Ada ms. SW
A . A. H ubner, JW
D. D. Rowlands, Insp.
T. J. Bass, Jr.
W.H.D<iily
A.H. Nicoll
182 J. Redal je, Jr .. SW.............. 56.42
\V. J. Mason
483 ....G. M. O'Brien, M......... ...... 58.10
J. Baker, SW
D. Rycraft, Jr., JW
60.76
F. F. Ellio tt, Insp........ ..
58.1 0
J. D. Kelso, Insp ............ .
H C. Comaford
A . 0. H erndon
F. A. Lister
184... ~\~:t':,j\\rM.................... 56.42

l

R. A. M anning
G. S. Russel
185... .L. E. Thompson, SW..........
1 86 ....J. E. Starr, M......................
C. Burr, SW
H. 0. Hall, JW
W. W. Shugart, lnsp...........
187....A. N. W allace, M..............
J. A. Olson. SW
D. J. Gourley, JW
R. S. dcl Mas, Jr.
188....K. W. Ryan, M..................
R. D. Morgan, lnsp.............
489 .... L. B. O lander: M
A. Van N icuw, SW
V. J. M cDonald. JW
A. B. Ebert
C.R. MacKay
C. B. Marker
J. A. Sobey
C. M. T homsen
490 ....R. E. Davis, M.............. .......
H. A. M ittlestead, JW
491....J. E . Spehar, M
R. Adams
W . W oodall, SW
W. Justin, Jr.. JW
C.R. Ramsey. lnsp.
A. A. Ho rwcge
C. Jansen
G. A. Jurgens
R. E. O'Brien
C. Rundstrom
G. S . Sleeman
192....B. B. Bever, M ......................
S. P . Bates. SW
C. R. Conyers, JW
G. E. Harrison. Insp.. ...........
D. C. Lee

20.<f1
40.46
10.46
4.34

12.74
12.74

32.76

56.42
56.42

403

Mile.
No.of
Allow
Representatives
Lod>1e
493 .... E. T. Hansen, M ................... . 29.96
E. D. Small. SW
F. C. H ess
194.... C. D. Guthrie, M
R. C. Leland, Jr .. SW
L. vV. Gilliam, JW
E. L. Hanson. Insp.
R. Adams
M. H . Berrie
C. Forrest
H . L. McCarthy
E. Patterson, Jr.
G. P. Silliman
R. L. Stephenson
L. N. Temby
N. Weisgerber
195.... F. A. Magid, M
S. D. Lee, SW
A. B. N adler, JW
L. D 'Atri
S. Hodes
R. A. Krug
M. Meyer
497 ....E . Berton. M
K. N. Jacckel, SW
B. G. Johnston, JW
T. M. Livingstone
C. L. Rossi
T. M . Severe
J. S. Sullivan
498 ... R. E. Tomblin, SW............... . 10.92
E . A .Amold
499 .... M. L. Sellick, M.................. 12.01
D. L. South. SW
E. A. Tannehill, JW
R. A . Ebbage
L. 0. Goodnow
T. D. Shrum
500....E. J. Armando
H . M . Ballengee
W. C. Zecher
501....L. E. D ean. SW.................. .. 34.86
502....J. D . F. Smith, M
T. Thornburg. SW
L. E. Gunderson, Jr.. JW
C. E. McC ray
M . Payne
J. E. Thurbon
503....E. R. Ostby. M
B. W. Colvln, JW
501....0. A. Vogel. M.................... 60.06
B. L. Pritchett, JW
E. Houser............................... . 60.06
505....A. B. Pilant, Jr., M.............. 60.90
H . E. Willianu, SW
C . Robertson. JW
W. F.Holman
506....G. H. Field, M ...................... 56.42
R. E. Harden, SW
N. T. Stocking, JW

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Representatives
Lod11e
H. Beal
M. N. Kroopcn
507....H. A. Wilson, M . ............... . 57.26
B. L. Guthrie. SW
C. M. Carnes, JW
R. J. Lehman
M. E. Marshall
508.... B. Thomas, M ...................... 29.40
5@ .... W . G. Cairns, M ................. . 56.42
R. E. McGinnis, SW
A. J. Oliver
510 ....W . W. Ellett, M ................. . 6.30
R. D. Batie, SW
G. G. Ainsworth, JW
511....H. R. Duke, M................... . 5.74
S. W. Dennison, SW
J. A. Thornton, JW

H.L.Hom

512.... H. Launius, M ........................ 56.42
A. Armstrong. SW
R. Niccum, JW
51
55.44
~~'W:tts~sw

3...·k

..................

). W . Cave, JW
R. C. Phillips. GC................
A. S . Davidson
D. H. LaGrange
M. L. Lvnch
V . H. Sipes
R. L. Whitney
5 14....A. W . Dalrymple, M
R. L. Newby. JW
E. A. Gumbinger
H. Loo
L. B. Richards
C. J. Sly
J. H. Turner
515 .... C . R. Link, M......................
P. T . D onohugh, JW
516....E. A. Moore, M ..................... .
J. C. Trotter. SW
M. T olf, JW
517....S . V. Doninelli, M
A. Cookson, JW
AV. Sligar
E . D. W ade
51 8....R. A. Holz., SW..................
W . Featherstone. JW
H. H. R. Aiman, Insp ...........
W . V . Marhy
R. B. Watts......................... .
519....R. P. Burney. M ..................
R. W . W eyant, SW
A. E. Larson, JW............... .
J. D. Andrews
P. M. Bezanson
L. W. G ardener
H. L. Henry

56.42

58.10
41.58

72.38
72.38
72.38
56.42
58.38

No.of
Mlle.
Repre:rentativu
Lodge
Allow
520....M. H. Nahin, M ................. . 56.42
S. Rosen. SW........................ 55.02
L. Levine
521.. .. R. F. Haas, M
T. S. Fiedler, Jr., SW
R. H . Chamberlain
G. H . David
522 .... H. M. Hall, SW.................... 57.54
523....B. A. Barton. SW................ 58.80
W . M. Marsh, JW
524....H . M. W arner, Sr., M........ 64.68
C. I. Hall. JW
C. D. Ginnett
525 .... L. Moya , M
D. M. Ratledge, SW
H. Baskin, JW
C. E. Bowen
J. T. Buchanan
W . E. Sainsbury
526 ....S. Diamond, SW
B. F. Cohn
). M. Mabel
527....W. E. McCauley, JW........ 57.96
E. S. T odd
528.... 0 . G. Triay. M.................... 56.42
F. Tlacil, SW
B. L. Griffin, Jr., JW
J. B. Crawford
M. L. Manahan
529....S. E . Lieb, M........................ 56.42
A. H. Blake, SW
E. V . Stewart, Jr.. PCM...... 56.12
A. Linsk, Insp....................... 56.42
L. P. Bass
B. Susman............................... 54.32
530.... D. B. Brewer. M... .......... .... 25.62
F. E . Koonce, SW
J. I. W eaver, JW
H. R. Hargrave, lnsp..... ....... 25.62
L. H. Moller
L. R. Stubblefield
531....J. M. Vargas. ER
W . J. Chisholm
F. F. Goodman
532.... H. D. Belcher, M.................. 13.16
R. E. Small, JW
533.... F. L. Caldwell, SW............ 60.20
W . F. f !per, JW
H. W . Wensel
534 C. B. von Storch. SW
A. S . Marshall. JW
F. S. Heuring
J. N. Rae
535 ....M. A. Saari, M.................... 56.42
J. T . Endo, SW
C. G. Fuller. JW
E. J. Blickfeldt
K. H. Copeland
R. W . Snow
E . A. Stone

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mlle.
No.of
Allow
Repre~ntatives
Lod11e
537.... J. R. Nocas, M ....................... . 56.42
H. A. Zieqler, SW
W. B. Sill. JW
F. A. Frazier
V. V. Goode
J. H. Karr
538. ..L. M. Pennin1iton, SW........ 58.38
R. G. Hewey. JW
W . H. Whitaker
539....V. P. Rosich, SW......... ...... . 57.54
C. G. Molin
540 ...C. D. Zeiger. M ............ ....... . 60.06
F. C. Tanner, SW
R. M. Watts, JW
M. Fairchild
C. J. Payne
F. L. Ray
541.. ..C. J. Bellman, Jr .. M
A. J. Leighton, SW
l . L. Bartholomew. JW
L. M. Barrett
R. L. Richardson
E . R. Rowe
542 ....R. I. Allen. M......................... . 54.60
R. A. Totman. SW
J. S. Woodward, JW
D. Maltby. Insp ................... 54.60
F. E. Archer
R. Bunce
C. W . Burch
J. G. Gladson
C. H. Smith
543 .... S. C. Hoskins. M ................. . 60.06
P. Mather, SW
544 .... W . J. Grauer, M ................. . 56.00
W . H. Adams, SW
545. ...W. S. H. W ong, M
W. F. Poynter, AGL
J.M. Coates
L. G. Fong
W . G. F urniss
T. L. Knudson
I. J. Kohnke
W . I. Kohnke
0 . W . Norman
R. A. Wiswell
57.51
546

····~: l\JJ.nP~uf~."sv./

. .......... .

G. H. Suppe, JW
547.... T. S. Sw!rles. M ................... . 58.38
H. L. Wiltse, SW
M. W. Watson, JW
548....X. G. Young , M ................... . 56.1!4
A. D. Sebring. SW

~: ~~~~'?~~~---········ ·· 56.84

H. W . Seitz.
549....0. T. Johnson, M
R. M. Manbert. SW
U. E. Nordeen, JW

N~of

105

Mlle.
Representatives
Lodge
Allow
W.W. Barry
A. Burke
M. F. Conklin
W.R. Cruickshank
S. Fong
G. D . Horn
K. D . Smith
R. L. Wimer
551.. ..T. P. Harris, M
L. A. Kirk, SW
R. W. Bowman, JW
P. S. Boren
L. B. Ferguson
E. L. Land
552 . . J. B. Wrigley, SW ............... . 39.76
A. Duncan, Insp ................... 39.76
J. S. T ario
554 .... G. R. Rankin, M
I. Ca mpbell, SW
L. D. Rusconi, JW
J. F. Aeschlimann, In.sp.
E. L. Bundy
F. D. DeLong
555 ....G. X . Van Dyke, ER. .......... . 40.46
556... .V. V. Casey, M
K. C. Thompson, SW
J.B. Smith. JW
F. B. Peebles
R. A. Smallman
557.... R. T . Quisenberry. SW....... . 57.54
558....E . B. Phillips. M .................. 60.20
C. R. Lewis, SW
559 ....T. G. W olfe. M .................... 56.42
J. S . Douglass, SW
560....B. H. Vincent. M
L. J. W ahl. SW
C. M. Stine, JW
E . H. Siems. GS
W. H. Gillette
G. McDonald
561....L. R. McClure. SW.............. 73.08
J. De Myer, JW
H. K. Ford
562....T . J. Meraz. JW
563 .... I. H . Stewart, M .. ............... 56.42
E. S. Slater. SW
W. Bottorff, lnsp................. 58.38
L.B. Black
M.F.Vail
564.... H. H. Brechtel. M
E. C. Frantz., SW
R. A. Ghent. JW
L. C. Raymond
565....T . lge, SW......... ................... 56.42
E. H. Satchell, JW
D. Johnson
566... .L. S. Schottke. M ....... .......... . 56.42
P.A. Walgren, SW
L. R. W ood, JW

406

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

No. of
Mile.
Lod{le
Representatives
Allow
567 .... G. Walker, M...................... 60.06
R. J. Nicholson, SW
568....W. V. McBeth. ER
D. E . Berry..................... ..... 13.16
L. M. Bradford
R. A. Browning
W. T . Friborg
H . 0 . Hosac
\Iv. H. Van Cleave
569 . ..C. V. Tucker, M ................ ....
3.50
H . M. Younker, SW
E. C. Barham. JW
570.... F. E. Long, M
H. H . Mitchell. Jr., SW
A. C. Gundred
Kinces
. H. Stroheck er
571....H. L. Fong, M
W. R. Peterson, SW
E.W. Davis, PGL
H. H. Hobson, In~p.
E.W. Batman
B. Hordos Ill
J. A. Pivernetz
572 .... H. D. Mooers, M.................. 56.56
W. T. Schlack, JW
E. J. Cumbey
H. T. N elson
573.... E. B. Zarley, M
H. H . Clayton, JW
571.. ..A. W . Hannum, SW........ .... 73.08
W. W. Andert, JW
N. E. Hale
575 ....E. R. Kent. M...................... 40.18
R. G. Ingram, SW
R. Reynolds, lnsp................. 40.18
E. N. Denny
576.... C. C. Brassell. Jr., M............ 71.48
L. Chambers. SW
0. J. Shastid, JW
577.... E. G. Morgan. M ............... ... 56.12
K. 0. Fike. SW
L. H. Mahler
578 ... .V. V . Lake, M ...................... 56.12
R. E. Williams, SW
A. L. Wagnon , JW
J. H. Edwards
A. V. Lundstrom
R. 0. Miller
579....C. G. Adams. M .................... 12.46
W. W. Powers, SW........ .... 12.04
K. W. Meyser, JW
R. W. Rylander , JGD............ 12.04
C. W . Brainard
C. E. Herrman n
J.M. Lee
580....Z. Y . Coleman, ER.............. 73.78
581....R. F. Freeman, M ..........·-····· 40.16
P. Fussel, SW
A. Blake JW

l

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
K. L. Morris, Insp................. 10.46
L. T. Jenkins
582 .... 0. L. Stephens, SW............ 63.28
F. Gilbl'rt. J\.V
. H . Weller, Insp........ ......... 63.28
583 .... . B. Hammons, M............ .... 38.61
M. C. Hair , SW
L. 1- Cates, JW
581.. .. W. F. Ramey, M ..
56.12
J. W. Mather, SW
C. M. King. JW
585.... A. 0. Rollins, M.................. 56.12
R. G. Bowman , SW
R. F. Van Fossen
F. E. Fowler
1. E. Martinet
586.... M. F. Reno, M ..... .................. 60.90
R. G. Nabors. SW
R. Sharpnes s, JW
W. W. Rryburn
587....S. L. Thomas. M............ ...... 56.12
E . E . Smith, SW
1- Maddock
588.... A. B. Nixon, M.................... 56.12
T. R. Mitchrll. SW
589 ....C. K. Oyagi, M ................ .... 311.49
590....R. Collins, M.......................... 61.01
G. H ardcastle. SW
H. Lewis, JW
R. Bowman
P.H. Van Dalsem
591.. .. L. J. Vieira, M ...................... 11.90
J. 0. Burke. SW
C. T. Milll'r
592 .... R. P. Williams , M............ ...... 51.16
A . J. Michaud. SW
G. E. Foster. JW
593 .... M. V. Dearth, M .................... 60.06
\V. G. Oeeble. SW
H . E. Perkins, JW
L. J. McEldow ney
K. C. Serles
C. F. Kimball
594 ....E . C. Lamberson, M ............ 60.06
A. C. Johnson, SW
W. P. Denny, JW
C. 1- Wentz, Insp........ ......... 60.06
P. 0. Nowlin
R. F. Ruth erford
595....V. R. Osburn. M.... ............. 56.12
596....R. L. Page. M........................ 57.10
R. J. Kolbenstetter, SW
D. B. E rwin
T. H. Mowery
598 .... S. F. Bovino, SW... .... .......... 285.09
599 ....L. S. H auger, M .................... 57.51
D. A. M ason. SW
W . A. Brady, JW
C. C. Davis
K. A. Jacobson
W. G .Mohn

.
l

No.of
Lod{le
Representatives
600.... A. R. Wilmeth, M ........
C. A. Bristol, S\V
R. W. Depalma. JW
R. 0 . Barnes
R. C. Eulberg
601. ...H . Hayes, M ................ .
602.... B. Holtzendorff , M ...... .
I. M . Bjork, SW
T. J. McKimson. In.sp...........
E.T. Church
G. H. H imes
603 ... L. C. Kennedy, M
R. I. Ketels. SW
G. Ringsmith, JW
W. J. Blomseth, GOrt.
L. C. Basker, Insp.
G . W . Anderson
604 .... D. Eastman, SW..................
L. G. Connelly , Insp............
J. Hawkins
605....

Mile.
Allow
57.40

35.00
55.14
56.12

60.90
61.18

~·~: ~~1:;~'M.............. ..... 56.42

407

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
R. A. Simon, (nsp ................. .. 58.38
F. A. Chworow sky
H. W. Liebscher
615 .. H . L. Kwock, M...................... 68.60
C. V./. Sprague, SW
R. K. Miller. Insp................ .. 68.60
616.... N. D. F rank, M .................
60.31
F. L. Southwo rth. SW
K. B. Conklin, lnsp........ ... .. .. 60.06
F. 0 . Brostrom
M. G. LaRue
617 .... F . L. Dickey, SW.................. 68.60
L. E. Bothell
618....C. W.W. Bailcy._M..........
56.12
B. Chatterto n, SW
H . V. Bowyer
W. F. Gallia
619 ....C . W. Middoug h. M...........
60.06
H . L. Randall, SW
520....

~.' ~e~~ri:.s\~.!.~...... ... . no8

H. V . Stanifort h, JW
C. R. Wilkins, SW
H. S. Fisher, l nsp............ . .. 73.08
G . C. Webb, JW
H . K. Rankin
607 .... H . A. Burch. SW.................. 58.94 621....L. L. Sandlin. M ..........
..
56.42
608 ....A. A. Hea rne, M.................. 57.40
M . G. Whitefor d. SW
H.B. !psen, SW
E. N. Caudle
D .R. Krag, JW
P. S. Vandegr ift
D . G. C <lmpbell. PGL
622 .... 0. F. Phillips, M .......... .
56.42
J. E. WcUett, lnsp........ ....... 57.40
H . B. Nicholas , SW
6(1} ....W. W. Holtzclaw , M............ 12.0t
H . A. Anderson. JW
J. F . Clayton, SW
C. F. Chapman , Insp ......
56.12
R. D. M arburg er, JW
F . H . Chapman
N . E. Ubbcn
C. A. Demby
610.... C. W. H asha~ M
R. H. Outwiler
J. J. H olt. SW
E. R. Jo hnson
R. Jacobsen, JW
G. H . Peterson
J. S. Blaine
R. G. Warmuth
J. T. Young
623
L.sF~~;dC
:::~n~s\ii.. .............. 56.42
611....J. H. Colpitts, M.................... 55.02
L. H. Spydell. SW
S. Chadnow . JW
N. B. Frankfor t
C.R. Wells. JW
A. Zeavin
C. 0. Fling
N. R. Quick
621.... R. M. Webb, Insp.
R. G. Worth
612 ....D. I. Marlow, M. ................ .. 58.38
S. E. Harris, SW
625 .. J. M . Farrell. M...... ................ 56.42
R. H . Bailey, JW
A. C. Hartjen. SW
M . E. Schrock, Insp........ ....... 58.38
J.C. Kopchinsky, JW
R. C. Curtis
A. 0. Holton
H . Lars..-n
6 13....L. G. Smith, M............ ............ 12.0t
W. T . Corbitt. sw·
626 ....0. V. Roose, SW........ .......... 73.92
H . L. Evans, JW
R. L. Erb. JW
F. P. Lemen. AGL.................. 12.0t
J. H. Greife
M . A. Buth
C. B. Hart
H. S. Garfield
C. E. Smith
L. R. Leech
627....J. E. Waller, M...................... 57.54
614 ....C. G. Grimes, Jr.. M .............. 56.42
W. H.Cox.S W
J. A. Kennedy, SW
R. Henry. JW
C. H. Watson, JW
L. R. Barnes
H. H. Cooper, SGS................ 56.42
P.H. Lowe

408

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mile
No. of
No.of
Mile.
Allow
Lodge
Representatives
Lodqe
Repre:sentative:J
Allow
54.60 646... .R. R. Snyder, M ............... .
628.... C. Terry. M.
56i2
J. R. Schncler, SW
R. G. Burg. SW
R. J. Dye
R. V. Fulkerson, Jr.
56.42 647 .. .A. M. Schellhous, SW.......... 57.96
629 ....R. V. Randall. M............ .
J. J. Jiderio, SW
T. A. Owe..n. Insp..... ........... 57.96
A. W . Billings
64R.... H. L. Knick, M...................... 63.56
B. L. Irwin
M. W. Farr, SW
630 ....G. H. Beers, M
E. A. W elrick. Insp......... ... . .. 57. l 2
J. D. Gingrich, SW
J. L. Ousley
W. H. Chick. JW
H. W. Robbins
H. C. Clausen
649 ....F. A. Machner. M .......... .
57.26
R. W. Blosser
D. J. Parton. S"\V
J. F. Garriott
L. T. Childers, JW
631....G. T. Hammond, SW............ 56.42
W. C. Cavanaugh
S. Allen, JW
6so
..
·
R
.· ~. ~~~<l::s"\v.. ...
56.'42
M. J. Norton
B. E. Rhodes
R. L. Dutton, JW
L. Spivak
F. S. Beaut.row
P.D.Tarr
G. W. Burch. Jr.. .................. 56.i2
632 ....C. E. Wright. JW.................. 73.08
H. J. Cameron
B. W. Buck
F. C. Ford
B. T. Salmon
W.G. Lee
51.24
633 .... J. J. DeMoor, M . ...... .
"\V. E. Robertson
L S. Terry, S"\V
T. W. Swank
R. L. Shearer, JW
651 ... F. W. Diestel. M....................
'4.'48
L. C. Dra peau. PGM ............ 50.54
R. J. Paroll. SW........
4.i8
634 ... .A. D. Keyfcl, SW........... .
59.08
R. V. Gregory. Jr.. JW
W. M. Marshall. JW
R. Hodge
635 .... E. W. Alsobrook, SW.......... 64.40
D. Wright
W. J. Partridge, JW
652...G. M. Hamill. M.................... 56.28
C. H. Grace ........................... . 64.40
F. B. Robertson. SW
636 .... R. S. Young, M ..................... . 56.42
F. E . Sanger. JW
R. A. Crigler. AGL. ............ .. 56.42
H. E. Allcock
56.14 653....R. C. Sichley. SW.............. . M.5i
637....A. Huntsman, M............. .
M. H. Borchardt, SW
65L.M. P. Ward, M...................... 57.26
R. D. Kerr. JW
W. S. VanDeweghe
J. A. Jackson
655
....
~: h~~~~~-SW···........ . ..... 60.06
638....G. H. Richards, SW
D.R. Lane
K. V. Johruon, JW
E. E . Met:z:
656.... R. W. Griffin, Jr .. M.............. 59.78
639 ....J. Chaleff, M......................... . 56.42
W. E. Reineke, SW
A. Dvorin, GSWB............... . 56.42
P. Campbell, GSTB.............. 59.78
A.Drit:z:
657....G. W. Ballard. M...............
73.08
6-il....A. M. Piculell, SW............... . 56.56
R. W. Alston. SW
A. J. Nocas, JW
K. A. Rush. JW
E. Kramer
W. R.Adams
P. Crittenden
6i2....~ G. Barnes, Jr., M ................ i7.60
F. J. Leipper
. R. Grebil, SW
G. A. McDaniel
. Y. Gilbert. JW
B. V. Winter
658 ....C. Parle, ER-....................... 15.96
M. Jacobs, Insp....................... 15.96
6i3 .... S. A. Maurstad, M ............... . 60.06
C.H. Kanen
A. L. Cruchley, SW
641 ....W. B. Marshall. SW........... . 59.78 659....B. R. Airey, SW.................... 59.36
C. K. Elliott. JW
E. E. Ivey, JW
645 .... G. 0. Parra. SW . .... ........ . 60.20 660.... J. G. Shepard. SW..... ........ . 58.66
A. P. Riggs, JW
R. F. Pickering, JW
E. [. Walker, lnsp ................ . 60.20 661 ...E. H. Grechanuck. M............ 56.42
R. . Duke
G. F. Varner, SW
W.W. Garrison, Jr.
J. Butler, JW

............

No. of
Mile
Lodge
Representative$
Allow
L. W. Jaques
G.White
662 ....H. L. Wyatt, M .................... 56.i2
S. H. Parks, SW
C. S. McCune. JW
S. R. Howell
H. B. Keeling ......................... . 56.42
P. R. Nichols
663 ....H. L. Watson, ER................. . 52.08
665 ... .L. R. Pritchard, SW............ .. 32.62
666 .... F. C. Potter, M ..................... . 54.32
W. W. Frimodig. S"\V
J. R. Vickers, lnsp................. . 53.90
F. S. Barnard
L. E. Parker
667 .... D. H. Miller, M ..................... . 56.00
D. E. Reid, SW
R. L. Peterson, Insp ..........·-··· 55.02
F. W. Raddatz, Insp............. 56.00
J. W. Catt
S. S. Grandfield
J. M. Swan
668... .D. R. M iller, SW................. . 68.18
R. L. Hargrave, JW
V. C. Mills
669 ... .L. G. Dozier, M..................... . 7.00
0. J. Halvorsen, SW
W. H. Reed. imp................... 7.00
H. Pritchard
670....L. 0. Johnson. M .................... 57.82
W. J. Linton. JW
K. E. Turner
671....R. L. Holt, SW..................... . 64.82
D. H. Blakelock
672 ... A. W. Palmer, JW............... . 63.70
W. H. Wayman, Insp........... 64.82
W. B. Sorrells
673.... J. W. ~pringer , M
K. Y. Yuen. JW
C. L. Foster, lnsp.
A. A. Baker. Jr.
J. S. Carpenter
C. H. Kiefer
W. C. Kunz
C. M. Prior
E . W . Quon
A. S. Sandell
S. M. Tatarian
R. Van Heekeren
67't ...J. B. Friedland, SW............. . 60.06
D. R. Keller, JW
A. J. Slssons
675 ....E. A. Jarrett, M................... . 12.H
H. H. Coleman, SW
P. C. Shaw
676 ....R. F. Ward, M ..................... . 7.00
0. C. Foster, SW
W. W. Eilers, Ill.Ip............... 7.00

No.of
Lodge

MUe.

Repre:sentatives
Allow
C . R. Carpenter
S. J. Gorman
T. D. Webster
677 ....H. W. Burson. M ................. . 56.'42
J. W. Miller, SW
H. W . Smith, JW
J. F. Porter, SGW............... . 62.02
!::'... Meyer. PGM ................... . 57.Si
W. A. Fishback, lnsp... ·-······ 56.00
C. Hall
T. H. Wright
57.40
678 ....~. ~. ~lbe~t. ~::·sw·········
E. W. Smith, JW
679....Not Represented
680....H. C. Weston, M .................. 17.36
T. W. Byers, SW
R. E. Tilly
681....V. R. Eppler. M.·-·--·-··--------- 19.88
682 .... L. E. Perkins, M .................... 58.10
D. R. Edmonson. SW
L. A. Gallagher. JW
V . E. Hixson, Insp ................ . 58.10
V. B. Claypool
R. P. Higgins
683....W. T. Condon. M .................. 29.5'4
68i ....M. E. Olinger, SW................ 59.22
L. A. Blackmun, lnsp........... . 58.66
G. Haughton, Jr.,
C. E. Ousley
685.... K. E. Hooton, M .................... 57.82
J. W. Dunn. Jr .. SW
R. W. Kirk, JW
S. J. Collins. losp.................. . 57.82
W. B. McKesson
W. J. Williams
686.... R. R. Grisham. M
J. H. Eichner, Jr.. SW
H. R. Carson. JW
F. Zamaroni
687....M. F. Schuster, M .................. 69.58

:f

...

tA.H.~: Chung
~1~!!.' /;:;, ..................... 69.58
1

688....E. A. Goss, M ....................... . i0.'46
R. L. Isaak. JW
L. E. Halbert
G. F. Norman
689....G. R. Murphy. M .................. 29.26
690....R. H. Fronberg, M
S. B. Armstr~11g. SW
R. R. Blair, JW
E. R. Baylis. Insp
69 1....M. L. Hamm, M ................... . 56.i2
C. D. McMillam, SW
R. V . Brown, JW
692.... H. B. Addison. SW................ 12.0'4
W. J. Moran, Jr., JW

410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mile
Allow
Representatives
693 ....R. D. Gregory, M ................. . 71.68
S. E. Carrier, SW
D. M. Binkerd. JW
H. 0. Gordon, Insp .............. . 72.10
C.H. Davis
W. J. Stuart, Jr.
694 ....I. A. Hofmann. M ................. . 58.10
H. A. Rutherford. SVv
W. J. Harris. JW
K. M. Harris
te~nns~~~·s'\1.r·······-·········· 40.46
695...J
C. E. Blair, JW
696 .... H. A. Diamond. SW........... . 73.08
F. S. Firkins
E. F. Sheffield
F. H . Stewart
R. S. Wilkinson
697 .... J. R. Spratt, M
J. S. Pursley, SW
R. H. Burrows, Insp.
W. McCosh
698....E. E. Dunlap, SW ............... . 56.12
W. S. Kisselburgh
699.... H. D. Lemons, M .................... 60.06
W . T . Killingsworth, SW
A. G. Sheets, JW
700.... C. A. Richardson, ER ............ 25.62
701....P. Nielsen. SW.... ·-·····--·-----··· 42.00
702-...J. A. McCaddin. SW........... . 57.68
J.E. Grosso, JW
703 ....J. B. Bennett, Jr., M-------·--··-··- 56.56
C. E. Donaldson, SW
70L.P. L. Hussey, M
T. H. Helms, SW
W. R. Hovey, JW
G. E. Chase
M . J. Lewis
H . H. Parsons
D. W. W ells
705 .... H. J. Mull. M
R. P. Partridge, Insp.
G. C. Otwell
706....0. E . Benbow, M
K. W . Bonham. SW
P. Granberg, JW
H. D. Seeskin, Insp.
L. J. W ells
707....S. A. Jenkins, ER................. . 26.88
708 ....W. R. Ludlam, Jr., M ............ 61.12
R. E. lngmundson, SW
E. Hill
709 ....C. V. McCaul. M
J. H. Vanden Bos. SW
E. C. Will, lnsp.
710....R. E. Littell, M ..................... . 52.64
L. F. Sowards, SW
E. E. Thomas. JW
B. L. Worford

No. of
Lodge

g

Mile
No. of
Allow
Representatives
Lodge
71 L.A. S. Alquist, M .............. ---·· 65.66
H. A. Barnes, SW
J. D. Williams. lnsp ............. 64.51
A. Hartwell
712....R. S. Everett, M ................... . 1.18
R. R . Rensha..,v, SW
]. R. Adams. JW
R. F. Foote
E. F. Thorsen
3.50
713 ....C. R. Hurlhey, M ..................
H . A. Johnson, SW
W . H. Monsen, JW
J. E. Ell card
714 ... S. R. Rey, M
H . H. Highsmith, SW
L. P. Carmichael. JW
D. E. Forster
715 ... .V. Petersen, M ....................... . 55.44
R. E. Goodall. ,r.. SW
H. A. Hulsey. W
W. L. Byram
R. E. Swann
716....H. C. Unbarger, M ............... . 60.06
G. W. East, SW
R. J. Fipps, JW
0. D. Akin
7 17....E. C. Elvin, M ....................... . 57.82
C. W. King . SW
H. P. Angus, JW
7 18... .E. F. Russell, M ................... . 10.08
719.... F. K. Osborn. M ................... . 33.18
R. B. Shultz. SW
S. Reid,JW
720.... R. F. Peebles, M ................... . 31.36
K. L. Wilson. SW
A. C. Twinem, JW
J. C. Christy
721....A. T obey, M ......................... . 54.00
W . R. Banks, SW
I. Wapner. JW
M. Thisted
7.42
722 ....J. B. Bertino, M ..................... .
R. F. Curtis. JW
L. E. Hendricks
L. J. W eistcr
723....R. L. Nicolai, M
S. R. Williamson, SW
0. Simonsen, JW
724 ....N. Perlmutter, M ................... . 1.62
L A. Tromp. SW
E. E. Diamond. JW
3.50
725 ....B. D. Cook, M ....................... .
G. C. Connors, SW
A. V . M orrison, JW
R. Kerr
Martin Quinn
726 ....R. G . Finley, SW................. . 65.52
A. R. Valerio, JW

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mile
No. of
A llow
Representatives
Lodge
727....T. H. Hicks, M...................... 56.00
W. E. Bergdahl
A. C. H arris
W. N. Hunt
P. B. Stone.............................. 55.44
728.... E. L. Geveshausen, M .......... 58.80
]. Oxford, SW
P. 0 . Mason, lnsp. ____ --········ 60.06
K. L. Hemphill........................ 60.06
729.... L. T. Hanlon, M.·-·--- -- --- -······· 58.38
M. F. Moore. SW
730....C. A. Clark, M..... ................... 12.46
0. W. Gifford, SW
J. H. Duggan, JW
E. E. Seagle, Insp.................. 12.04
731....F. R. Chambers, SW............ 58.10
H. Hintergardt, Jr., JW
732 .... J. E. Quinnell, M.................... 12.46
S. B. Taber. SW
A. L. Dennis, JW
733 ....B. Kuenneke, SW.................. 12.04
J. Robinson
D. Wiswell
734 ....J. C. Nedy, M........................ 12.04
P. Madsen, SW
P. J. Shugart. JW
T. N. Fassett
W. A. L. Long, Sr.
J.E. Roderick
735 .... W. W. Shirley, M................ 71.96
C. P. Hoffmann. JW
736... .V. D. Riska, M...................... 71.62
G. J. Bell, SW
C. T. Hobbs ·
T. E. Parsons
737 ....C. W . Schwahn, Jr.. M
M. E. Bagwell. SW
L. L. Scannell , JW
J. Burzran, Jr., Insp.
F. F. Livingstone
738 .... P. H. Krauter, SW................ 43.68
739 ....L. T. Hodge, Jr., M................ 56.28
R.R. Beal. SW
R. G. Mower, JW
C.R. Tucker
740 .... S. Nakamatsu, SW................ 57.96
J. J. Maybee, JW
741....R. C. Welch, M..................... 58.52
V. A. Strandquist. SW
S. H. Millers
742 ....B. D. Moore, SW.................. 58. to
F. B. Portune, JW
A. DeBoer
743.... M. Christensen, SW.............. 56.28
744....C. M . Liebert, M
E . C. Roulette, SW
C. S. Johnson
J. W. Parker

411

No. of
Mile
Representatives
Lodge
Allow
745....E. E. Orner, M
P.Smith, SW
D. K. MacFarlane, JW
H. E. Carver
746 .... L. D. Bass, M ...................... . 10.64
A. Schlee, SW
J. A . Carhart, JW
C. N. Cooper
J. L. Tedrowe
747.... M . M . Cash, M·-···········-········ 73.92
748....K. E. Forsyth. M .................. 62.72
G. W. Hart
G. W . Whelchel
719 ....L. A. Wallace, SW................ 17.92
H. M. Beam
S. Daniels
T. D. Dyer
W. A. Jensen
750....V. J. Latham, M .................... 60.31
F. J. Rector
751 ....J. E. Hoekman, M .................. 3.92
G. J. Roth. SW
G. N. Rodgers, JW
R. W. Bussman
J.M. Conway
752....W. W. McNulty. M ........... .
7.56
R. V. Loberg. SW
E. R. Lessard. JW
E. B. Personett
753....W . W. Ellison, M .................. 57.96
D. E . Covingto n, SW
J. J. Ba uer. JW
754.... Not Represented
755 .... s. Elek, JW........................... . 57.40
756.... W. J. Martin, M ................... . 4.34
W. 0. Starr, SW
L. M. H auk, JW
). Brouss
H. C. Roe
757....G. C. Darrah. Jr., M.............. 10.92
C. N. Clarkson
758 ....J. P . Lackey, M ...................... 58.66
J. L. Hawkes, SW
D.Ho lm.JW
L. C. Hall................................ 59.78
H . W. Meyerinck
759....E. H. Berutto, M-···-·········-···- 58.10
R. M . Fellows, SW
D. W. Nelson, JW
P.A. Morris
760....C. F. Jacobs, M .·-······--······----- 74.48
B. J. Conrad
761....D. D. Wilcox, M ................... . 4.48
W. F. Davis, SW
J. F. Thatcher, JW
0. T . Lund
H. E. Simons

412

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
762 .... R. G. Van Ness, M
G. W . Claymore, SW
J. E. Ragland, JW
A. L. Kirby
J. P. Williams
763 .... S. M . Berny. M ...................... 56.12
P. A. Fagrey. SW
N. A. Barakat
7M .... D. R. Crawford. M................ 51 .60
D. J. Battle. SW
765 .... D. C. Zollinger, M .................. 58.38
L. G. Reynolds. SW
C . 1. Echelberger, JW
P. F. Lucas
H. C. McLendon
766 ....W . A. Mcintyre. M....... .. ... 58.10
C. C . Turner. Jr .. SW
P. D. Bums. JW
W . Robusch , Insp............. ... 58.10
767 .... D. E. Wallen. M......... ...... .. 56.12
A. E. Seyfried, JW
E. A. Gray
768 .... D. G. Greenwood. M..... . . 51.32
G. C. Aubi neau. SW
W . R. Delabar, JW
R. Fud_gc
769.... H . L. Chamberlain, M............ 51.18
H. A. M arer. SW
V . E. Browning, JW
E. G . Buttery
770.... M. H. Bouchard, SW............
3.50
A. D. Lankford. JW
K. M . Huffstutter
G. T. Loher. Jr.
771. ... H. R. Ellis, SW........
73.08
J. L. Rogers
772 ....R. H. Frank, SW.................. 31.64
773 ... .R. D. Morgan, JW................ 10.16
H . S. Little
G. C. Poloynis
L.B. Smith
H. G. W alford
771....W. K. McKee, Jr.. SW........ 285.09
P. Y. E. Ing
K. L. Look
A. H. Wong
775.... F. L. Cates. SW.................... 70.14
776.... C. H. Hiatt, M ..... ................ 57.82
H. C. Hasse. SW
H . M. Curts, JW
777 .... /\.. A. Riva. M........................ 18.18
H. M. Zechman, SW
L . A. Recd. JW
W . K. Head
W. M . Head
778....D . R. Blgalke, M.................... 59.22
E. G. Van Pelt. SW
). H. Miller. JW
13. H. Hamlett

No. of
Mile
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
H. M. Jenks........................... . 58.52
R. L. Riemer
779 .... W . A. Crews. M.................... 60.06
C. E. Strobel. Jr., SW
J. H. Coates, JW
C. R. Heinz. lnsp................... 60.06
780.... E. V . Johnson. M.................. 56.28
P. E. Sprln. SW
R. E. Young. JW
W . H . Crooks. Sr.
T. B. Patterson
781....K.
Bachenheimer, SW...... 59.78
782.... E . . Madison. M..................
6.58
G. S . Gage. SW
R. C. Hennesey
L. R. Snyder
783.... L. R. Henry, M...................... 19.00
L. M. Howe, SW
1. C. Hobson, JW
R. E. Moore
781 ... 0 . P. Gainer. M............. ...... 22.68
R. C . Hoch. SW
W . E. Conley. JW
L. D. Sine
785.... R. H. Patzig, M ...................... 57.51
H. T. Brittian. SW
W. L. Grant. Jr., JW
786.... R. H. Rudd. M........................ 11.00
J. E. Smith. SW

Mile
No. of
Allow
Lodge
Representatives
797 .... F. E. Mendoza, M................ . 56.12
B. B. Levin. SW
798.... F. R. Johnson . M
A. R. Perryman. SW
E. A. Koontz. JW
L.A. Paulos
799 .... H. F. Rosenquist, M .............. 73.08
W. Wright. SW
F. R. Davis
W. I. Lane
T. F. McAlee r. Jr.
800.... J. D. Hudson. M.................... 58.24
L. M. Austin, SW
T. P. Greene, JW
801....T . Scarlett. M................. ..... .. 285. 59

787....

C . L. Jones. JW
M ile
N o. of
Allow
Lodge
Representatives
808 ....J. M. Compton.. M ................. . 11.18
'N. Harina, SW
W. E. Denton. JW
R. V. Stall
60.31
809 .. .K. Freema n. SW.....
8 10 ....M. T. Ellsworth. SW ... ........ 61 .10
55.02
811....R. G. Wanless, M ....
K. L. Wilson. SW
A. E. Schultz. JW

X

f~·J;;!~.asty.J_~............... 60.31
M. L. Young. JW

788 .... D. C. Abston, SW- ················
789....L. D. Skyhawk. Jr., M..........

28.56
12.01

R. Thompson. SW
790....D. G. Davidian, SW............

52.92

791....J. W . Mofford. M..................

52.08

M. E. Balser

W. H. Ha rvey. SW

R. E. H edblom
C. B. T yler
792 ... A . R. Powers. Jr., M
T. F. Hoey. SW
R. S . Goldflam. JW
A. P. Cassidy
0 . A. Phillips
793 ....D. N . Ma ta. M ....... .
S. O choa. SW
M. V. Gal'cia, JW
79-1 ....N. M . Otis, M ........................
0 . M . Offley, SW. ...............
P. A. Clarke, JW
T . W . Heidner, lnsp.............
L. C. Lamb, lnsp.....................
795 ....B. fl. Parker, M ...... ·-·············
G . L. Dudley, Sr., SW
J. L. W ennes. JW
M. W . Perry
796 ....J. B. ChlldreM, M..................
E. E. Wagner, SW

56.12
57.10
57.51
57.51
57.51
15.10

63.56

802....

k~l" ~:~dtL ...................... 68. 18

E. . Littlepage. S\V
L. L. Cunningham
803....W. R. Willis. M ................... . 15.12
W . H. Wong. JW
804 .... F. W . Scurlock, JW............. . 65.10
W. L. Schooler
58.38
805....C. H. Jackson, M ..........
T. F. J. McDuffie. SW
J.M. Conover, JW
57.54
53.90
806....

~:LtIEV;~~~~;;·M::::::::::::

807 ....R. E. Strite. M....................... . 53.90

812.... H. J. Simpkins, M..................

H. M. Gruenberq, SW
K. R. Crone. JW
8 13.... M. L. Mosena. M..................
S. \V. Rensen. SW
F. A. Sands. JW
81L.1. F. Voorhies. M ..................
E . W. Schnerin9er. S\ V
R. H. Kirkman. JW
8 15 .... F. Hofer. M ..... ......................
L. S. Collins, S\V
J. W . Daley. JW
M. L. H urst
8 16 .... H. C . Shultz. SW..................
M . A . Plummer
S. Steelm;:in
8 17.... H. F. Penner, SW ..................
818.... W. B. Ladd. M . ..................
E. W . Cannon, SW
G. A . H usong. JW
C. J. Davis
H. E. Sarqent
8 19 .... P. R. Nichols. M ..
A. E. F raser. JW
C. E. Glaze
820 .... W. V . Schmidt. M........ ...
K. J. Egan, Jr .. SW
R. f3. H err, JW
W. H. Johnson
Gateway UD ....
G. L. Walter. M............. ......
R. E . Tilly. SW
A. R. Newsome, JW
J. E. Flatley
L. Martin
Boron UD....

J. 0. Fourr, M ........................
B. J. Lanphear. SW
W. R. Hawk, JW
Maccabee UD....
I. Zuckerman, M....................
S. Parker. JW

413
57.10
50.12
56.12
60.76

55.11
57.51
5.74

56.1 2
61.12

16.38

53.31

57.68

TOTAL ................................$36,939.21

With Membership, Cha rter D ates, Fees, Dues. Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments. Co ntributions.
Column titled " G. L. P er Capita" includes $2.35 for Grand Lodge plus $1.50 for Masonic Homes, $0.25 for publicatio n, California
Freemason, and Degree F ees.
Column titled "Members Contributions" includes Ho mes Contribution of $25.00, G. W . Memorial Contribution o f $1.00 and C alifornia
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
M embership statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A .L. 5966.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges.
Members

Charter
h sued

Degree

/lfl 11.

Pees

Fee•

D ues

!nit.

Pa.eaed

Railed

G. L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

California .......................... I
Western Star ........·- ········· 2
Tehama .............................. 3
Benicia ................................ 5
Tuolumne .......................... 8
Corinthian .......................... 9
San Jose .............................. 10
Yount ·····················-····-······ 12
Nevada .............................. 13
Temple·····················-········· 14
Eureka ........................·-····· 16
La Parfaite Union.............. 17
Mountain Shade ................ 18
San Joaquin ........................ 19
Washing ton ...................... 20
Hawaiian ............................ 21
Occidental .......................... 22
Madison .................. - .......... 23
Mariposa ··················-···.. --· 24
Georgetown ........................ 25
El Dorado .......................... 26
Trinity ................................ 27
Golden Gate ...................... 30
Gold Hill ···-······················· 32
Ophir .................................. 33
San Diego .......................... 35
Howard .............................. 37
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
Sacramento ···········-··········· 40
Martinez ............................ 41
Los Angeles ........................ 12
Hiram .................................. 43
Mount Moriah .................. H

408
236
8 12
226
287
HO
507
548
182
276
388
101
61
766
852
387
554
328
195
68
292
174
472
128
117
1007
275
536
808
420
1106
133
293

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1851
1854

100
65
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
50
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
100
75
125
100
50
50
100
50
100
100
75
150
75
100

20

18
15
15
18
12
18
18
18
16
15
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
15
25
15
18
15
12
15
20
12
16
18
21
18
12
15

4
9
17
5
7
10
11
JO
9
7
11
1
1
H
12
5
4
6
1
4
H
5
3
4
4
34
5
12
5
4
15
7
3

3
9
17
3
3
9
6
8
5
9
3
2
1
17
11
5
8
5
3
4
8
6
1
4
3
25
5
7
3
5
24
8
3

4
6
15
2
2
6
4
6
5
7
8
2
1
12
8
5
6
4
3
1
8
8
3
3
4
17
6
8
5
8
32
9
3

1634.60
682.90
3361.80
912.00
1164.10
1775.70
2118.30
2229.80
748.80
1245.50
1555.40
115.00
288.1 0
3 159.00
3615.00
1589.40
2243.90
1390.70
806.50
287.80
1190.30
662.40
19 17.60
51 9.40
478.40
4 130.90
1106.60
2146.70
3309.80
1718.50
1552.30
561.1 0
1177.50

H0.00
315.00
595.00
225.00
245.00
375.00
410.00
400.00
340.00
270.00
385.00
35.00
60.00
550.00
495.00
225.00
110.00
235.00
60.00
140.00
490.00
175.00
105.00
165.00
140.00
1415.00
175.00
470.00
250.00
165.00
750.00
270.00
105.00

Crescent ............................- 45
Texas .................................. 46
Forbestown ··········-············ 50
Illinoistown ........................ 51
Suisun ................................ 55
V olcano ····--······················ 56
Santa Rosa ........................ 57
Union .................................. 58
Gravel Range .................... 59
Plumas ................................ 60
Live Oak ............................ 61
Natoma .............................. 61
Amador .............................. 65
Morning Star .................... 68
Enterprise .......................... 70
Bear Mountain .................. 76
Calaveras ............................ 78
Humboldt ···-······················· 79
Ione .................................... 80
Yolo .................................... 81
Vesper .........................·-···· 84
Naval .................................. 87
Rose's Bar .......................... 89
North Star .......................... 91
St. Helena .......................... 93
Henry Clay ·····-······-·-····· 95
Hornitos .............................. 98
Yosemite ............................ 99
Clay .................................... 10 1
Oroville .............................. 103
Lexington .......................... 104
Arcata ................................ 106
Pajaro ................................ 110
Chico ................................. .111
Summit ................................ 112
Eden .................................... 113
Concord .............................. 117
Fidelity .............................. 120
Alamo .................................. 122
Sotoyorne ............................ 123
Table Mountain ................ 124
Lafayette ............................ 126

221
51
113
78
321
124
645
682
104
178
823
394
98
654
373
82
132
520
98
105
248
1108
71
96
133
85
109
503
JOB
397
645
335
402
615
73
133
373
578
459
2H
360
221

1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858

125
50
65
60
75
50
75
100
50
75
7.5
100
50
100
75
50
85
85
86
50
100
75
50
50
50
50
90
90
50
65
125
75
75
90
50
105
75
100
75
75
80
75

20
12
15
15
21
15
18
20
15
16
12
15
16
15
15
15
12
18
16
16
12
12
15
12
16
16
12
15
16
15
16
20
18
15
12
18
18
15
18
15
21
20

2
4
1
1
13
3
9
8
2
1
ti
10
I
1I
15
4
4
7
2
1
3
17
12
4

3
4
2
3
11

3
2
2
2
11

866.80
254. 10
562.60
325.80
1516. !0
552.70
2689.30
2764.90
135.10
725.60
3319.00
1647.30
392.50
2708.20
1521.10
412.00
542.00
2231.00
353.70
431.50
1042.60
4471.00
327.40
39"1.30
528.90
357.50
155.70
2047.90
415.60
17 19.30
2706.00
1394.50
1669.20
2329.20
301.20
1794.80
1535.00
2380.20
2039.50
1003.20
1585.iO
883.20

145.00
H 0.00
35.00
35.00
555.00
105.00
390.00
280.00
70.00
35.00
565.00
350.00
35.00
435.00
550.00
H 0.00
140.00
245.00
70.00
35.00
130.00
695.00
495.00
140.00

Lodge

No.

-

10

-

2
5
5

-

-

2

15
5
10
10

-

25

-

-

5
10
2
4

-

1
I
10

-

10
10

10

10

-

5
5
5

10

5
JO

-

-

2
1
5
5

5
3
10
5

-

-

-

10
5
5
2
10
10

-

5
5

-

-

5

10
15

-

5
1
2

..l>.

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

-

-

IO

7
3
2
9

H

-

12
10
5
2
to
2

-

3
17
6
5

-

-

1
5
12
5
Ii
17
9
7
12
6
7
6
14
16
2
6
6

4
5
12
3
11
17
8
8
8
2
4
6
10
16
3
4
4

9
7
4
I
5
12
2
12
7
5

3

12
2

-

3
9
6
1

1
7
13
3
13
13
1
6
5
1
4
6
11
12
6
1

4

IA

-

190.00
175.00
120.00
200.00
190.00
620.00
340.00
295.00
115.00
210.00
320.00
235.00
590.00
635.00
95.00
310.00
235.00

...i.

\.I\

Lodse

No.

Hermann ............................ 127
Visalia ................................ 128
Nicolaus .............................. 129
Woodbridge ...................... 131
Sincerity ............................ 132
Vacaville ............................ 134
Valley ................................ 135
Pacific ................................ 136
Crockett .............................. 139
Curtis .................................. 140
Grafton .............................. 141
Franklin ..............................143
Oriental .............................. 144
V!truvius ............................ 145
Abell .................................... 146
Eel River ............................ 147
Lassen ................................ 149
Molino ................................ 150
Woodland .......................... 156
Keystone ............................ 161
Harmony ............................ 164
Excelsior ............................ 166
Alameda ............................ 167
Redwood City .................... 168
Mission .............................. 169
Elk Grove .......................... 173
Drytown ............................ 174
Antioch .............................. 175
Phoenix .............................. 178
Mendocino .......................... 179
Petaluma ............................ 180
Russian River .................... 181
Arouckle ............................ 182
Clear Lake .......................... 183
Sierra Valley .................... 184
Claiborne ............................ 185
Evening Star ...................... 186
Keith .................................... 187
Oakland .............................. 188
Northern Light .................. 190
Marin .................................. 191
Santa Barbara .................... 192

Charter
IHU<d

Memben

154
569
1-43
194
91
315
93
499

1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864
186i
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868

.+06
94
102

HI
278
144
352
264
241
156
317
47
32
374
344
668
549
150
78
399
746
108
335
123
83
161
28
80
82
194
682
129
522
371

Fee•

Affil.
fees

100

20

Driree

-

75

50
50
135
115
50
100
75
75
50
75
100
75

50

50
100
50
50
50

-

50

50
75
75
100

5

12
20
25
5

-

5
10
-

1
2

50

100
102
100
100

5

5
5

5
I

50
10

-

80

-

75
50
115
50

-

5

5
5

5
l

25

50
50

5
5

50

2

75
90
100

5
10

l

75

-

50

-

Dues

!nit.

P•H•d

R• iscd

18
15
12

1
12
6
8
1
7

3
13
7
4

2
1-4
7

15

18
20
18
16

5
2
6
3

5

3
2

15
15
12
25
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
16
12
15
16
18
18
18
15
12
16
15
12
15
18
18
12
12
15
12
18
18
15
18

-

l
l

-

1
2
3
7
3
3

3
1
2
4
20
15
8
8
1

5
19
3
6
2

l
3

4
-

-

-

2
5
7
3
4

5
13
7
9
2
5
16
2
8
3
l
6

-

3
2
3
8
4
9
7

1

-

3

5

9

5

4

l

5

17

6
10
3

6

l
l

4

I

1
1

5
5

7

I

-

-

5

-

2
8

25

19
5
7
3
4
10
1
8
1

8
-

3
2
4
9
4
10

6

G . L.
Per C•pita

Membeu
Contri b.

625 .10
2351.40
602 .20
808.30
409.1 0
1315.00
388.30
1942.00
1609. 10
376.10
420.20
575.00
11 81.80
603.40
1458.00
1093.40
9R2.70
678.30
1295.30
230.70
206.20
1505.30
1447.80

35.00
470.00
2 10.00
305.00
35.00
295.00
175.00
105.00
70.00
35.00
35.00
35.00
120.00
105.00
295.00
105.00
105.00
50.00
105.00
35.00
70.00
165.00
700.00
625.00
315.00
280.00
35.00
175.00
690.00
155.00
235.00
95.00
35.00
130.00

2577.W

2314.40
614.40
325.80
1629.40

300l.IO
444.70
1383.20
523.00
373.20
768.00
114.80
364.80
332.00
803.30
2878.!0
526.50
2148.70
1516.60

....

~

0\

--

140.00

-

210.00
200.00
2 10.00
375.00
205.00

--"--

Ferndale .............................. 193
Mountain View ................ 194
Buckeye .............................. 195
San Simeon ........................ 196
Wilmington ........................ 198
Hartley .............................. 199
Truclc.ee ..............................200
Sllveyville ..........................201
Pentalpha ..........................202
Confidence ···················-·····203
Salinas ................................ 204
Olivet ..................................205
Stanislaus ..........................206
Anaheim ............................207
Rio Vista ............................208
King David's ......................209
Friendship .......................... 210
San Benito ..........................211
South San Franclsco..........212
San Buenaventura -----------214
Oak Grove ........................215
Doric ..................................216
Monterey ............................217
Mosaic ................................218
Downey .............................. 220
Inyo .................................... 221
Roseville ............................222
Bakersfield .......................... 224
Brooklyn ··············--·-······----225
San Mateo ··----------··- ·····----226
Athens ···--------·-·····-·········--228
Solano ................................229
North Butte ······---·--------------230
Covelo ................................ 231
Janesville ··················----------232
Calistoga ............................233
Hope ..................................234
Surprise Valley ................235
Hills Ferry ........................ 236
Guadalupe .......................... 237
Colusa ................................240
Santa Ana .......................... 241

86
412
134
102
654
237
150
158
398
127

602
148
666
520
172
399
723
175
203

HS
506
365
295
296
962
142
506
739
414
60 1
197

502

24 1
73
140
117
107
104
164
257
166
598

1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
187 1
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876

100
85
75
125
65
90
90
100
75
105
50
75
105
100
100
11 5

65

95
100
100
100
75
100
125
50

75

100
75
100
90

75

75
50
75
50
50
75
75
75
50

75

5
25

-

10
10
5
20

-

-

-

26
1
5

I
10

-

1
10

-

20

5
10

-

10

-

10

5

10

5

-

18
15
12
15
16
15
20
15
20
12
24
18
15
18
18
15
12
15
15
18
18
18
24
18

5

10
1

18
15
22
18
18
15
16
18
15
18
12
12
15
12
15
18
21

-

l
8
2
4
8
4
6
3

6
8
2
7

29
2
7

l
8
1
3
10
2

5
3
1
4
13
4
9
16
3
8

9

5

3
11

1
3
10

14

11

3

2
4
4
23
1
21

13
2
6
8
5
5
1
2
I

-

1

6
10
3
19

1
5

-

2
8
1
2
9
6
4
1
2

14
4
7
16

-

6
6

l

2
18
9
1

5

6
23
1
17
12
3

12
25
2
19
16
4

8

9

5

3
6
7
4
2

6
6

-

2
2
1
1

7
10
4

9

-

-

1

5

H

3
13

356.60
1696.80
553.40
423.10
2702.40
965.40
582.RO
629.10
1625 .60
567.70
2490.90
538.60
2720.80
2152.00
662.90
1644.60
2951.50
722.50
595.60
1851.20
2092.60
1494.50
1198.90
1169.60
3978.30
578.00
2127.50
3025.80
1696.30
2442.00
807.30
2001.40
1059.70
302.20
563.60
473.50
437.60
410 .00
682.20
1075.40
690.60
2451.80

35.00
330.00
70.00
165.00
305.00
140.00
2 10.00
105.00

-

270.00
390.00
70.00
270.00
1075.00
70.00
270.00
315.00
155.00
105.00
435.00
565.00
70.00
165.00
140.00
830.00
35.00
760.00
455.00
70.00
210.00

305.00
175.00
175.00
35.00
70.00
35.00
35.00

-

260.00
350.00
105.00
765.00

~

~

Lodge

No.

Magnolia ----------------······-----· 242
Eucalyptus --···-----------······--243
Alcatraz ----······--------------------244
Laurel -------···---------·----------.... 245
Pomona -·········-------------·--····246
Fresno ................................ 247
Alturas ·--···-------------·--------· ···248
Adin ---------··· ---·--- ·----------------250
Landmark ---------···--------------253
Reading · ··------------·------··--·--·254
Welcome ··-----------·---------·· --255
Lodi
----········--------------------·--·256
Penrhyn
______________________________ 258
Evergreen ------------------··---·--259
King Solomon's Seaport....260
Tuscan ----............................ 261
Lompoc .............................. 262
Hesperian __________________________ 264
Orla nd ----···------·-------------·-·· ·265
Ga It ..... ·-----------·-·--------------·· 267
Durant -----···----------------·----...268
Olive Br anch ...................... 269
Snow Mountain ...... __________ 271
Pasadena -----------------·----------272
Anchor __ .·-------··------···----------273
Arroyo ---·-·-·-···--·-----·--···------274
Oakdale ---------------------------···275
Selma -----·-- ... ·----------------------2 77
Southern California -----···--278
Hanford ------------------······---·-279
Madera ------------·-··------···-----280
Mount Shasta -··---·-----·-------28 1
Callayomi .......................... 282
South West ------------------------283
San Miguel ________________________ 285
Paso Robles ...................... 286
Winnedumah ____________________ 287
Maxwell -------------------·····------288
Elsinore ---·--------------------------289
East Gate ---------···---····-------290
Santa Paula ---------··-------------291
Los Gatos -----·-········-·---------292

Orange Grove ____________________ 293
Traver --------------------------------294
Mt. Jackson ----·----·--------------295
Silver Gate ________________________ 296
Dunsmuir ----------------------------297
Liberty ------------------------------··299
Redlands --·-------------------------300
Ontario ·---------------------···-·--.301
Santa Lucia ........................302
Porterville ..........................303
Reedley -----------------------------.304
Azusa ···-------------------------------305
Ashlar .. __ .. ------------------· .......306
Santa Monica ___________________ .307
Monrovia --···--··-------------------308
Delan o ....----···----·------------····309
Sisson _________.........................310
Los B anos _________________________.312
Tehachapi ........ ------------------313
T emescal --------------------------- .314
Norwalk ___________________________ _315
Sanger -------------------------------.316
F allbrook .. -----·-------------------.317
Emanuel .... --------------------------318
Hollenbeck ....................... .319
South Gate ....................... .320
Alisa! ______............................ 321
Alhambra ___________________________ .322
Whittier --·--------------------------.323
Corona -----··--------·--------------- -324
Consuelo ............................325
Needles ________________________...... 326
Long Beach _______________________ .327
Redondo ..............................328
Vallee de France................ 329
Kilauea -·-----------------------------.330
Pacific Grove ---·---------------.331
San Pedro ·--·----------------------332
Alta -----·---------·-------·· ..-·-------333
Covina ------·--·---------------------.334
West Gate -------------------------.335
Fruitvale ____________________________ 336

Affil.

Charter

Degree.

M embers

Ia.sued

Fe es

Fees

Doe•

511
560
478
251
427
698
188
91
112
345
200
403
135
721
554
88
319
437
176
87
353
304
44
490
590
2!0
218
212
380
231
280

100
99
75
50
115
80
65
50
50
90
90
75
50
75
115
50
100
75
50
50
80
75
75
115
125
75
75
80
75
100
75
90
75
105
50
75

-

66
555
80
281
235
65
130
581
419
435

1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878
1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
188 1
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888

18
18
15
12
18
18
18
12
16
18
25
15
12
18
18
18
15
18
15
15
20
25
12
20
20
20
18
18
18
18
15
18
18
16

385
140
122
1190
240
395
486
522
168
511
151
325
332
350
336
247
104
184
178
293
424
319
168
83
657
422
213
617
749
416
423
310
626
787
123
186
317
573
151
566
1146
735

1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899

75
80
50
100
50
125

170

10
5

-

-

-

-

-

5
1

10

-

75

115
75

55
50
100
100
100
100
100
115
90
75
125
125
100
125
105
125
53
115
165
100

3

-

1
1
5

10

-

-

-

15

-

2

-

2

-

5

5

--

1
25

12

-

5

2
5

Rai•ed

P er Ca;dta

9

12
11
4
1
6
8
3
1

13
12
5

2308.60
2307.40
1864.10
1002.40
1784.10
2837.60
698.90
483. 10
446.90
1438.50
824.80
1603. 30
490.80
2970.30
2320.40
351.40
1364.80
1795.00
702. 80
357.50
1428.60
1262.40
219.40
2282.30
2409.10
863.80
889.30
862.90
15 13.70
969.60
1154.80
709 .90
266.50
2287.20
491 .80
1164.10
964.30
276.50
538.00
2356.20
1738.70
1815.10

6
1

10
8
1
3

-

13
3
12
3
14
8
1

20
10
3
3
4

6

-

1
8
7
2
4
1
4
2
4
8

7
9
2
I

-

-

13
4
11
3
16
6
2
19
12
4
3
3
5
1

14
6
10
1
17
6
4
22
10
7
3
3
5
2
6
9
5
7
3
2
3

8
11
4
5
2
3
3
6
3

-

5

6
-

10
4
5
2
4
2
1
9
17

6
2
4
3
3
2
4
10
19

15
9

14

14

6
5
17
5
8
8

4
6
17
5
6
9
12
7
11
3
7
5
5
9
1
3
18
3

15
18
18
18
12
24
18

18
20
21
18
15
18
18
18
15
15
15
16
18
15
25
18
18
18
18
20
50
12
15
15
15
18
18
18
40
20
15
16
16
16
15
15
20
24
12
18
21
18

Passed

13

15

-

90

75
75
75

1

-

-

115
75125
120
100
50

2
5
5

-

75
75
75

75

5

-

-

50

3

-

JOO

75
75
75

1
2
1

G. L .
lnit.

-

12
3
15
7
11
5
7
1
10
6
11
9
2
3
19
3

5

13

5
5
2
9
5
6

11
2
3
11
3

5

10
12

5

5

18
5
2
2
5
6
7
7
11
7
11
1
12
24
2
4
10
20
6

17
21
16

16
17

23
3

17
6

1
3
4
4
7
17
15
13
2
15
22
5
1
8
20
8
13
25
18

2
6
3
6
6
18
12
12

5

8
1
3
4
3
1
6

5

1
16
20
3
3
7
20

14

1601.00
580.70
511.20
4875.80
935.50
1607.50
2000.20
2131.10
701.70
2114.00
612.80
1325.70
1385.80
1467.40
1429.30
1028. 10
431.30
798.30
70 1.90
1191.70
1767.70
1313.70
805.80
337.10
2609.30
1758.00
882.10
2560.10
3078.10
1690.40
188 1.20
1046.70
2585.00
3 128.70
497.90
766.50
1502.40
2232.40
534.90
2607.70
4761.20
3011.20

Membero
Cont rib.

365.00
480.00
210.00
35.00
375.00
305.00
35.00
105.00

>-I>..00

-605.00
105 .00
420.00
105.00
515.00
305.00
35.00
850.00
425 .00
105.00
155.00
140.00
210.00
35.00
280.00
270.00
145.00
140 .00
35.00
140.00
95.00
140.00
280.00
25.00
350.00
165.00
175.00
70.00
140.00
70.00
35.00
315.00
620.00

600.00
315.00

--

580.00
105.00
550.00
245.00
4 10.00
175.00
270.00
35.00
400.00
235.00
435.00
350.00
70.00
105.00
690.00
105.00
200.00
830.00
105.00
200.00
35.00
105.00
140.00
140 .00
270.00
630.00
525.00
755.00
95.00
635.00
870.00
175.00
60.00
365 .00
850.00
280.00
455 .00
1010.00
755.00

>-I>..-

\0

Charter
haU<d

Dea;rcc

Me.mben

Carquinez ......................... .337
San Jacinto ----·---·-······-------338
Fullerton ............................ 339
Oxnard ..............................341
San Fernando .................... 343
Starr King ..........................344
Brentwood ..........................345
Palo Alto ............................ 316
Mc.Kinley ............................347
San Bernardino ..................348
Sequoia ..............................349
Palestine ----------·-·····----······351
Sunset ............................... .352
Pinole ..................................353
Presidio ..............................354
Hollywood ........................355
M ill Valley ........................356
Buena Park ........................357
G<ilden State ......................358
Loyalton ............................359
San Francisco-Victory .... 360
Fort Bragg ........................361
Charity ..............................362
Berkeley ..............................363
Willits ................................365
Las Palmas ........................366
South Pasadena ................ 367
Unity ..................................368
Ocean Park ........................369
Amity-Seal Rock .............. 370
le Progres de !'Oceanie......371
Gardena .............................. 372
West Los Ang eles.............. 373
l[wel ..................................374
ichmond ......................... .375
Francis Drake ....................376
Artesia ................................377
Mizpah ................................378
Fillmore .............................. 379
Huntington Beach ........... .380
Oceanside ..........•.•............ .381
Highland Park ................. .382

171
117
412
429
739
509
171
766
464
1015
875
416
287
193
375
1158
436
449
516
87
401
153
209
550
155
1073
532
559
473
509
691
570
478
197
381
443
245
329
231
376
537
529

1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907

75

Orosi .................................. 383
El untro -----------------···········384
Dinuba ................................ 385
Coalinga ............................ 387
Parnassus ..........................388
P alos V erdes ....................389
Imperial .............................. 390
East Belt ............................ 391
W est Lake ------------------------392
Balder .................................. 393
University ..........................394
Turlock ..............................395
Apollo ................................ 396
Rising Light . .....................397
Fraternity ..........................399
Burlingame ........................ 400
Bay View ..........................401
Brawley ..............................402
Yerba Buena ......................403
Glendora ............................404
M oneta ..............................405
Burbank ..............................406
La Mesa ............................ 407
Sierra Madre ......................408
Honolulu ............................409
Charter Rock ....................4 IO
Perris ..................................411
Calexico ..............................412
Arlington ............................ 414
Silver T r owel .................... 1 15
Lindsay ..............................416
Clovis .................................. 417
Elysian ................................41 8
Upland ................................41 9
Kerman .............................. 420
Inglewood .......................... 421
Eagle Rock ........................4 22
Y ork ....................................423
Exeter ...............- ...............4 24
Ho ltville ............................425
M idway. ..............................426
Chino alley .................... 427

143
4 83
280
354
629
678
129
116
631
453
442
4 23
41 7
894
399
6 22
612
233
840
250
487
875
632
197
408
233
178
132
235
100
203
580
380
287
152
727
4 74
302
233
153
422
255

1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
19 10
19 10
1910
19 10
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
19 11
19 11
19 11
19 11
19 12
19 12
19 12
19 12
19 12

Lodge

No.

Fees

65
125
100
125
100
65
100
75
75

JOO
100
100
75
100
125
100
125
100
50
100

75

100
75
75
75
115
100
115

JOO
175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
90

75

100

65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50
100
100
100

75
75

100
100
100
75

Affil.
Pee1

--

10

-

10

-

5

-

10
I
10

-

20

-

-

-

-

5

-

-

5
1
5

-

1

-

5

-

25

5

-

25
1

-

-

-

10
-

5

10
20
10

-

-

1

5

5

75

-

100
110
105
125
125
90
175

25

75

50
75
100
125
50
80
150

90
75
125
100
100
50

75
50
90

-

10
3

-

25

-

5

5

10

-

5
3

25
-

10

-

Duet

!nit.

15

1

18
21
25
20
15
15
12
15
15
24
18
20
18
18
18
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
24
20
16
30
18
18
15
16
17
15
12
18
18
15
20
18
15
15

2
13
11
17
15
1
4
6
20

20
18
12
15
18
18
18
15
JS
18
18
15
18
15
15
18
18
18
18
40
12
25
20
22
15
18
18
18
18
18
24
15

20
18
12
15
18
18
15
12
18
16

Paaaed

-3

3
14
12
21
8
2
6
5
21

12
12
13
12
1
4
5
19
6
7
6
9
4
14
6

5
3
7
9
4
18
10
32
1
2
3
2
17
8
2
11
12
6
7
7
9
16
8
3
3
9

5

7
5
10
3
9
8
19
3
2
3
3
13
7
5
22
7
12
6
11
9
15
11
3
4
8
8
6
1
16
11
3

24
2
2
5
I
16
5
2
15
8
11
6
7
9
18
9

...

2
7
8
6
1
15
13
5

JO

5
1
18
9
2

5
8
3
3

7
19
2
1

2

7
3
10
9
6
5

7

13
4
9
4
1
26
10
1
13

-

6
1
1

9
2

2

2
9

9
I

I
3
9

13
2
3
4
10

2
10
6
11
3
9
12
3
12
2
l
29
8
2
10

12

-

I

15
5
8
2
11
4
2
3
4

5
4
13
4
10
3
8
4
1
5
4

7

5

-

Railed

...

5
11
12
3
2
4
11
I
10
8

IO
3
10
10

-

8
1
1
31
8
4
7
l
14
I

-

5
3

13
7
11
3
9
4

-

8
4
4
6

G.L.
Per Capita

Memben
Contrib.

712.50
483.60
2195.90
1773.40
3081.30
1982.50
727.80
3152.70
1910.20
4188.70
3505.10
1718.90
1184.60
778.30
1511.60
4853.60
1795.20
1883.10
2080.60
424.50
1622.30
629.20
1055.60
2271.20
644.50
4296.00
2163.10
2304.50
1933.70
2066.80
2851.90
2365.90
1971.40
805.40
1562.90
18 15.70
1026.40
1337.20
950.10
1574.20
2282.40
2142.00

35.00
70.00
480.00
460.00
670.00
550.00
85.00
265.00
210.00
950.00
175.00
130.00
295.00
340.00
140.00
755.00
350.00
1195.00
35.00
70.00
155.00
70.00
645.00
280.00
70.00
410.00
420.00
260.00
295.00
295.00
365.00
610.00
280.00
230.00
105.00
315.00
350.00
175.00
35.00
755.00
415.00
70.00

578.90
2037.60
11 28.40
1476.90
2569.40
2778.70
531.80
469.30
259 1.19
1868 .90
1769.00
1723.70
1675.30
3553.00
1638.70
2543.40
2507.30
945.90
351 6.60
986.90
1971.00
3596.00
2592.60
839.70
1728.20
91 5.30
906.80
535.00
945.00
1609 .80
829.00
2489.30
1636.20
1197.50
701.20
2981.10
1902.10
1196.10
959.00
627.00
1705.40
1063.50

175.00
355.00
105.00
105.00
270.00
690.00
70.00
35.00
70.00
245.00
105.00
375.00
340.00
235.00
200.00
245.00
455.00
190.00
41 5.00
165.00
60.00
1060.00
475.00
60.00
505 .00

..i..
N

0

--

335.00
35 .00
35.00
310.00
70.00
525.00
200.00
280.00
70.00
41 0.00
165 .00
70.00
105 .00
140 .00

-

270.00

-

.ii.

N

Lodge

No.

Charter
Mem be r.a

h11ued

San Dimas ......................... .428
Pittsburg ............................429
McCloud ............................430
Alpha ..................... .............431
Hammonton ....... ............. .433
Maricopa ............................434
Fairmount ..........................435
Claremont ..........................436
Lancaster ............................437
Tyrian ................................439
Standard ............................440
Coronado .......................... HI
Blackmer ................... ........ 442
Schofield ............................ 443
Carpinteria ........................ 444
Wilshire ............................ 445
La Puente ..........................446
Torrance ............ ............. 447
Mount Diablo .................... 448
Park ....................................449
Van Nuys .......................... 450
Montebello ........................451
San Pasqual ...................... 452
Crocker .............................. 454
Golden West ....................455
Ramona .............................. 457
Henry S. Onne..................458
Riverbank ..........................459
Moun t Oso ........................460
Argonaut ............................461
Paul Revere ......................462
Morgan Hill ......................463
Alta Vista ..........................464
Center ................................465
Libertas ..............................466
Culver C ity ........................ 467
Rockridge ..........................468
Yorba Linda ...................... 469
Lincoln ................................470
Delta ..................................471
Maui ..................................472
Blythe ................................473

189
349
99
482
105
175
368
214
590
235
324
366
111 8
320
162
426
281
624
479
367
1172
684
545
538
490
521
541
140
337
334
558
155
226
514
712
435
387

1912
1912
191 2
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1911
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
19 15
1915
1915
1916
19 16
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917

353
484
183
169

1918
1918
1918
1919

America ..... - .......................475
Coachella ............................476
Temblor- ..............................477
Thousand Oaks ................478
Golden Rule ......................479
Fellowship ..........................480
Mt. Davidson ....................481
Clarence F. Smith..............482
Bell ......................................483
Albert Pike ........................484
Chowchilla ........................485
Caledonia ..........................486
Vallejo ................................487
Patterson ............................488
East Bay ............................489
Corcoran ............................ 490
Woodstock ........................491
Garvanza ............................ 492
Atascadero ........................493
A corn ..................................494
Lebanon .............................. 495
Fremont ..............................497
Stockton ............................498
Capital City ...................... 499
Roosevelt ............................500
Westwood ......................... .50 I
Harbor ................................ 502
Point ................................... .503
Seaside ................................ 504
Silver Cord ........................505
Mount Olive ..................... .506
El Segundo ........................507
Joppa ..................................508
Benjamin flranklin ............509
Cupertino ........................... .510
Sunnyvale ..........................511
Palms ................................. .5 12
Cahuenga ......................... .513
Argonne ............................. .514
Vermont Square ................5 15
Taft ....................................5 16
M ount Vernon ..................5 17

385
291
124
465
7 18
274
347
300
785
221
170
559

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
192 1
192 1
1921
1921
1921
1921
192 1
1921
1921
1921
1921
192 1
1922
1922
1922
1922

177

375

179
273
137
408
294
153
613
396
507
193
633
190
240
552
352
528
611
908
479
99
275
258
503
470
529
3 11
397
287
177

1918

Degree

Feu

/\Jft1.
Fua

65

-

50
75
50
50
100

--

75

-

75

-

-

10

-

115
75
75
100
100
140
50
100
100
110
75
100
125
100
115
75
75
100
125

-

-

JO

10
-

-

10
10

-

-

l
10
10
1
10

80
115
100

75

75
80
100
JOO
115
100
100
100
50

-

-

-

75

75

75
100
100
115
100
100
75
100
75

75

100

75
75

75
75
80
100
100
80
100
100
80
75

75

125

75

5

5

-

-

l
10

-

-

10

-

10

-

10
I

-

1
10

-

10

-

10
15
30

-

-

1

-

150
125
100
100
100
50
80

10

-

-

5
5
15

-

lnit.

Paned

Rai1ed

18
20

9
4
2
8
7

14
3
2
10
3

12
3
1
8
2

15

15
16
20
18
18
18
12
20
15
15
15
18
18
20
15
20
24
15
16
22
12
18
18
18
15
18
18
12
15
18
20
18
20
18
15
18
15
16
20

8
11
5
4
8
3
3
1
4
4
6
4
17
11
8
4
7
6
1
4

18
20

10

15

5

125
100
50
100

75

1

-

75

115
75
50

5

-

Duce

10

21
12
21
21
20
18
18
16
18
16
18
18
18
18
18
16
24
24
18
18
15
15
18
15
15
18
18
16
18
15
18
15
25
21
18
18
15
20
18

-

-

3
4
12
9
7
2
23
18

5

16

5
4

5
9

4
6
10
8
4
2
1
2
3
6
9
8

6
21

14

3
2
18
22
10
4
17
8
7
6
6
8
9
1

5

9
7
6
8

1

l

2
3
2

3
3
7

5
3

-

17
6
7

15

5

5

5

7
2

5
7
2
2

13

1
10
2
6
13
3
6
7
8
4
6
11
6
3
2

I
9
1
8
14
1
6
6
7
4
6
10
6
2
2
1
2
2
4

3
3
4

5

1
2
4
6
8
7
3
2

3

2
16
1
3
12
8
6
20
16
8
4
11

5

3
4
26
14
l
4
15
17
10
3
17
6

5
17
27
23
4
17

2
4
12

3
5
21
3

2
18

1

2

-

5

13

-

5

7
6
2
14

-

3
12
14
9
23
21
9
1
4

5

2
9
10
8
22
15
7
2
4
2
15
4

4

5

5

12
2

10

2

5

5

5
14

9

5

1

-

5
14

5
1

-

G. L.
Per Capita

Member•

834.90
1412.20
406.80
1969.40
426.10
692.90
1499.30
876.10
2453.60
1270.90
1335.20
1547.60
4584.10
1434.30
652.80
1704.30
1195.70
2603.90
1982.30
1482.90
4753.70
2822.50
2252.60
2194.90
2027.00
2088.50
2169.30
574.90
1387.70
1364.10
2272.20
647.40
935.60
2 113.20
2877.70
1772.70
1567.70
763.50
1492.90
1983.10
744.00
697.70

365.00
140.00
70.00
280.00
245.00
25.00
130.00
165.00
495.00
315.00
245.00
105.00
880.00
705.00
95.00
175.00
620.00
10-i5.00
880.00
140.00
695.00
585.00
280.00
385.00
175.00
165.00
305.00
105.00
105.00
60.00
140.00
165.00
235.00
140.00
680.00
435.00
280.00
165.00
245.00
210.00
60.00
165.00

1595.20
1209.80
480.60
1899.90
2978.70
1128.30
1422.30
1423.00
3176.90
918.10
663.60
2298.30
1553.40
798.80
1104.80
599.70
1650.10
1193.90
635.10
2527. 10
1738.30
2070.20
780.90
2640.50
780.00
992.00
2283.90
1462.QO
21 67.30
2570.10
3721.50
1983.80
345.10
1130.10
995.70
2068.40
1891.80
2117.30
1390.60
1624 .90
1179.40
714.40

95.00
375.00
70.00
140.00
470.00
175.00
165.00
175.00
340.00
140.00
260.00
385.00
330.00
190.00
70.00
35.00
70.00
105.00
260.00
315.00
280.00
105.00
70.00
560.00
35.00
105.00
420.00
280.00
260.00
750.00
585.00
280.00
140.00
385.00
175.00
565.00
175.00
140.00
315.00
95.00
175.00
35.00

~

N
N

C ontrib.

~

N

(.,.)

Lod1e

No.

La Jolla ..............................518
Euclid ..................................519
Ionic ................................... .520
Piedmont ............................ 521
Sunrise .............................. .522
BellBower ........................... .523
Catalina Island .................. 524
George Washington ......... 525
Bay City ........................... .526
Covenant ............................527
Beverly Hills ...................... 528
Loy alty ............................. .529
Sun Garden ........................ 530
Alexandria .......................... 531
Smyrna .............................. 532
Azure .................................. 533
Forest Hill ........................ .534
Alexander H amilton .......... 535
Utopia ............................... .537
Asco t ................................. .538
Belvedere ........................... .539
Queen Beach ..................... .540
Henry Morse Stephens.. .... 541
North H ollywood .............. 542
S ignal ................................. .543
Glendale .............................. 544
Veri tas-Jonathan ............. .515
San Gab riel ........................ 546
Arcadia ..............................547
Triangle ............................. .548
f;ltice ................................ 549
eshore .......................... 551
Semper V ireos ................. .552
Educator ............................551
White Pine ........................555
Fairfax ............................... .556
Hermosa ............................ 557
Point Firmin ......................558
Craftsmen ......................... .559
Plymouth ............................560
East San Diego....•............ .561
Pyramid ..............................562

South Park ···-·····-··-······.563
Foothill ···--·--·-···-·····564
West Adams ·--·--·-···565
James A . Garfiel<L.........._.566
Searchlight ·····-···-·-······-.567
Park Boulev ard ·····----.568
Chateau Thierry ···---·····569
Military Service ................570
Francis K. Shattuck............571
Jimes Madison ..................572
illcrest ···-······-·················573
S. W. Hackett..._...............574
Fort Crook ···········-···········575
El Cajon Valley ................576
Sunnyside ...................- ..... 577
Progressive ....................... .578
Warren G. Harding ......... .579
Santa Maria ········---·········580
Security ................. - .......... .58 1
R ialto ................................. .582
Wasco ................................583
Harding .............................. 581
Manchester ....................... .585
Garden Grove ....................586
Valley Forge ................... .587
El Sereno ............................588
Kauai ·--··---·······--·--············.589
Compass ........................... .590
Escalon ............................. .591
Tujunga ..............................592
All States ···--····--·-············593
Serv ice ............................... .591
A lexander Graham Bell...595
Guardian ........................... .596
Pearl Harbor ......................598
Carmelita ............................599
Lynwood ............................600
Grizzly ................................601
Melrose ..............................602
Dimond ..............................603
Jubilee ................................60i
Glassell Park ......................605

Member•

J47
357
1261

229

256
671
134
384
409
238
522
735
531
174
2 14
420
193
278
548
323
184
183
288
1002
538
788
322
595
621
318
377
256
331
382
lOi
496
420
327
326
384
900
302

376
1003
322
225
428
110
339
29 1
20i
319
68
580
222
606
376
470
669
129
398
338
326
30i
320
470
4 13
420
117
3'i 1
159

366
534
890
262
959
634
345
563
121
256
257
130
389

Ch•rtU
luued

~a:rce

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

115
100
215
100
75
125
135
100
100
100
125
150
80
75
70
125
100
75
100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
125
100
90
75
100

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1921
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
75
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100
115
80
11 5
125
120
100
125
75
11 5
50
125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
75

Peca

JOO

Affil.
Pee1

Due•

-

15
22
25
24
18
21
20
18
21
18
15
18
15
18
15
21
18
20
20
15
20
18
16
20
18
18
18
15
24
15
18
21
18
15
12
18
16
12
16
15
12
20

-

25
JO

-

-

10
10

-

10
25
5
5

-

-

10

5

-

-

5
5

-

-

JO
25

-

10
5

2
-

5

-

12

-

5

-

75

-

5

20
JS

JO
JO

5
5
l

-

10

-

5

10

-

15
20
15
15
15
15
23

15
18
18
20
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
18
16
18
15

15

-

-

1
7
34
5
13
2
4
4
2
2
30
9
4
7
14
4
1

1
8
38

1429.70
1412.80
5216.80
922.50
1050.3t)
2829.40
554.<!0
1580.20
16&5.80
981.90
2090.90
3065.fO
2 l M.50
717.20
901 .40
1765.00
734.30
1126.40
2205.70
1345.90
755.20
740.70
1172.30
4109.00
2189.10
3233.10
1308.80
2445.00
2547.60
1354.70
1537. 10
10i7.30
1355.50
1559.80
498.30
2020.20
1689.50
1363.10
1345.90
16 19.40
3721.30
1211.JO

-

4
12
2
5
4
2
2
35
9
4
9
12
8
2
3
5
2
3

5
20
3
7
1
6
15
7
3

5

13
4
2
12
17
3
1
7
21
1

5

18

5
10
20

-

5
6
28

5
1
1
3
1
2

18
18
18

-

Per Capita

20

10

-

R• ia<d

8
19
8

20

-

PHa<d

18
18
20
18

10

5
1

20
18
15
20
18

20
18

G. L.

!nit .

l

13
8
15
5

5
12

i
11
8
6
9

-

23
3
7

-

9
1
10
13
II
2
26
11
6
H
1
13
l
15
13

-

4
2
6
4
15
4
10
1
8
17
7
5
4
6
3
2
13
10
1
I
8
22
1

-

4
12

-

l
5
5
4

24
14
4
8
17
l
I
4

5
6
3
15
5

H

3
12
15
6
8
1
1
3
2
13
II
5
I

5
20
2

9
15

9
17

5

5

5
6
4
1
1
1
2

-

12
6
11
5
2
13
1
8
7
4
8
3
18
4
5
1
8
2
5
23
9
2
16

1i

5
14
3
9
2
11
8

2
6
6
1
1
l
3

-

17
6
18
1

i
15

i

7
7
5
7

i

18
5
6
2
8
3
9
15
13
3
18
14
5
12
6
9
2

JO
6

1561.60
1188.70
1309.50
930.40
1734.90
1682.70
1.385.50
l20i. IO
838.30
13 10.80
310.70
2383.10
8 17.00
2504.00
1522.80
1921.60
2771.70
532.70
1625.00
1403.70
1421.60
1299.90
1314.90
1965.50
1680.70
1719.50
482.70
1514.00
730.90
1605.00
2253.50
364 1.00
1073.00
3938.60
2629.10
1410.00
2272.30
157.70
10i6.30
1030.00
1807.60
1601.40

Mcmbcn
Contrib.

425.00
235.00
11 05.00

~

N

~

--

140.00
470.00
70.00
17'i.00
140.00

i0.00
70.00
1275.00
340.00
140.00
315.00
445 .00
21\0.00
70.00
105.00

2CO.OO
70.00
105.00
175.00
700.00
155.00
395.00
85.00
210.00
600.00
270.00
155.00
200.00
480.00
140.00
70.00
545.00
645.00
140.00
35.00
270.00
860.00
H0.00

280.00
740.00
305.00
175.00
175.00
140.00
140.00
105.00
140.00
70.00
35.00
505.00
280.00
675.00
175.00
175.00
470.00
165.00
385.00
280.00
210.00
390.00

-

880.00
105.00
215.00

- -

310.00
140.00
385.00
580.00
460.00
95.00
910.00
540.00
260.00
515.00
140.00
505.00
35.00
575.00
180.00

..:..

N
\J1

Membero

C harter
Is•ut d

Degree

Sojourner ............................607
Granada ..............................608
Provident ............................609
Elmhurst ............................6 10
Canoga ..............................611
Temple City ......................612
Three Pillars ...................... 613
Larchmont ..........................614
Hemet ..................................615
R. E. Dolley........................616
Big Bear .............................. 617
Southland ..........................61 8
Neptune ..............................6 19
Point Loma ........................620
The Gardens ......................621
Atwater ········--·····-··········-··622
Menorah .......................... _623
Fortitude ............................624
Angeles M esa .................... 625
Chula Vistu ........................626
Lamanda Park ....................627
Truth ..................................628
Fairview ............................629
Ingleside ............................630
Benevolence ...................... 631
Normal Heights ................632
Poinsettia ............................633
Victorville ..........................634
Riverside ............................635
John M arshall .................... 636
Palisades ............................637
Indian Rock ........................ 638
Composite ..........................639
James A. Foshay ................61 I
La Cumbre ........................612
Alta Loma ..........................643
Lomita ................................644
A . F . E . l rwin....................645
Metropolitan ......................646
Hawthorne ........................647
Damascus ..........................648
Florence ..............................649

319
757
509
272
485
536
460
365
308
252
167
37 1
312
701
517
373
1238
220
672
709
314
240
288
202
255
8 15
750
309
662
279
414
179
752
207
342
372
386
252
18 1
575
744
383

1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927

115
I 00
100

La Brea ..............................650
Menlo Park ........................651
Cresccnta V a lley ..............652
Fontana .............................. 653
Jordan ................................654
Monte Vista ......................655
Citro! .................................. 656
John D . Spreckels..............657
Livingston ..........................658
La Habra ............................659
Baldwin P ark ....................660
Malta ..................................66 1
Henry Knox ......................662
Ojai ..-.................................663
Kaweah ..............................665
Reseda ................................666
Meridian ............................667
San Gorgonio ....................668
John P. Jarman....................669
Greenleaf ............................670
San Clemente ....................671
Laguna Beach ....................672
Far W est ............................673
Los Cerritos ......................674
Modesto ...........................-.675
Willow Glen ......................676
Liberal Arts ........................677
Altadena ............................678
C anby Cross ......................679
Carmel ................................680
Dos Pa los ..........................681
Barstow ..............................682
Redwood Empire ..............683
Trooa ..................................684
San Marino ........................685

243
347
643
396
404
826
266
656
207
298
363
255
390
189 .
139
900
5 17
267
3 19
899
163
201
343
548
545
406
441
507
131
258
165
48 1
122
165
475
2 16
352
292
92
478
461

1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947

Lodse

No.

~~~Y__::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~~

O ildale ................................688
Pohona ................................689
San Carlos ........................690
Indian W ells Valley.......... 69 1
Travelers ............................692

206

Fees

100

135

Aflil.
feu

-

-

10
15

JOO

-

100
100
90
100
75
100
125
120
100
75
175
100
125
125
11 5
115
100
90
100
105
100
74
75
100
100
75
175
I 00
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
125

10
5

75
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125
115
75
125
105
50
120
100
75
75
100
] ()()

100
75
175
75
115
125
115
65
75
100
100
100
75
100
75
75
100

50

100
100
100

-

-

5

-

-

-

25
5
5
1
20
10
3

-

-

-

-

5

5
10
5
10

-

-

5

5
5

-

-

-

-

3

-

1
5
25

-

1
10

-

-10
10

-

1

10
1

-

25

10

-

-

5
10

Due•

Init.

Pas•ed

Jlai••d

20
18
18
20
18
15
18
II!
18
20
20
18
20
18
18
15
16
18
18
15
20
21
21
20
18
15
18
18
18
15
18
21
15
20
18
18
15
18
15
18
15
18

10

7
6
12
8
14
4
6
6
10
3
1
8
5
10
9
6
40
7
4
19
7
8
1
1
4
13
13
15
15
4
4
2
19
4
6
4
7
10
6
6
18
12

9
6
13
8
13
5
7

20
25
16
20
18
18
20
20
18
15
20
15
15
25
18
18
20
18
15
15
16
18
18
18
12
18
20
18
20
20
18
24
18
18
II!
18
15
25
12
18
17
15

10
13
5
10
7
6
2
8
5

-

6
4
9
9
5
37
7
4
17
9
8

-

1
8
15

14
9
18
3
3
I
21
5
8
5
8
10
6
9
19
7

2
6
15
12
5
18
5
12
4
14
12
5
2

44

1
7
20
7
6
14
5
10
7
10
13
3
1
5
5
45

10

11

5
2

2
7
18
3
2
2
6
8
7
10
1
1

1
2
32
1
6
11
3
6
11
2
10
20
6

3
9
18
7
3
1
6
9
4
11
3

-

I
3
25

-

8
7
1
6
8
3
5
15
6

5
7

5
3
9

5
10
8
7
39
5
2
18
4
7
3
2
3

14
12
13
16
4
3
1
15
7
6
2
10
9
5
7
19
9

2
8
24
9
7
10
6

9

7
6
16
3
2
3
3
42
11
5
11
17
7
1
1
9
10
3
11
4

-

3
3
29
7

9
3
8
8
1
8
13
4

G. L.
Per Capita

M emben
Contrib.

1305.20

400.00
375.00
480.00
175.00
350.00
270.00
210.00
95.00
505.00
200.00
25 .00
210.00
140.00
340.00
315.00
200.00
1445.00
270.00
165.00
720.00
340.00
355.00

3092.90
21 20.80
1128.00
1996.80
2209.50
1940.00
1419.00
1271.40
1004.80
653.70
15 15.40
1268.60
2878.90
2119.20
1539.!0
5080.30
904.60
2728.30
2940.40
1303.30
966.00
1184.80
821!.IO
1180.00
3363.00
3151.20
1299.80
2837.70
1224.90
1699.20
772.90
3257.70
887.40
1444.90
1503.80
1678.50
1054.00
820.90
2346.70
3003.90
1590.10

997.20
1443.70
2658.40
18 18.40
1649.80
3408.10
1094.30
2675.50
854.40
1198.50
1547.90
1215.10
1622.60
775.60
674 .90
3808.70
2106.60
1195.60
1322.60
3730.70
681.20
972.80
1406.20
2259.60
2270.10
1703.60
1823.70
2066.20
573.10
1061.70
684.50
2037.60
193.00
697.50
1966.30
880.30
1438.60
1207.80
478.20
1982.80
1934.00
852.40

""'
N

°'

- -

35.00
280.00
675.00
540.00
415.00
715.00
105.00
105.00
35.00
795.00
175.00
330.00
200.00
355.00
350.00
210.00
340.00
665.00
245.00

70.00
2 10.00
625.00
420.00
175.00
705.00
200.00
570.00
165.00
5 15.00
420.00
175.00
70.00
200.00
95.00
1590.00
425.00
95.00
245.00
655.00
130.00
180.00
70.00
310.00
355.00
270.00
375.00
35.00
35.00
165.00
70.00
1195.00
60.00
235.00
410.00
105.00
285.00
385.00
95.00
400.00
725.00
210.00

~

N
"-!

Lod11e

No.

Memben

Cbam.r

D<groe
Fce:a

laaued

Palm S prings ......................693
San Antonio ......................694
Meudell ..............................695
Crossroads ........................ 696
Sa int E lmo ........................697
W m. D. Stephens..............698
Bixby Knolls ...................... 699
Ponderosa ..........................700
Santa Ynez Valley ........... .701
Rosemead .......................... 702
Westchester ......................703
Orinda ................................ 704
El C errito ..........................705
HuntC'rS Point Naval ......... .706
Lake T ahoe ........................ 707
Seafaring ............................708
Lorenzo ..............................7r:f)
Anacaf a ........................... .71 O
Rim o the World. ............ .711
Los Altos ............................712
C astro Valley -----------····----·713
Blue Lakes ..........................711
Magnolia Park .................. 715
Belmont Shore ................. .716
Wayfarer .......................... 717
San Lorenzo Valley..........718
Estero .................................. 719
Mineral King ...................... 720
Home .................................. 721
George E. TutL. ............... 722
A calanes ............................723
San Ramon Valley ............724
Saint John's ........................ 725
Yucaipa .............................. 726
V erdugo Hills .................. ..727
Lakewood ..........................728
Centennial ......................... .729
Polaris ................................730
Two Rivers ....................... .731
San Juan ........................... .732
Golden Empire ..................733
Kit Carson ..........................7:H

289
282
225
351
288
196
408
386
16 1
256
482
277
226
221
106
515
377
281
193
247
349
245
316
379
194
113
165
121
597
195
203
165
271
240
108
290
167
199
198
242
173
208

1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954

100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80
75
100
125
100
75
100
75
100
100
100
75
100
100
100
125
125
100
100
75
75
165
100
75
75
75
75
100
140
125
100
100
100

O asis of Mara ................... .735
Lemon G ro ve ....................736
Hillsborough ..................... .737
Arvin ...... .......................... .738
La Canada ..........................739
Opportunity ..................... .740
Tyre .....................................741
Morningside Park .............. 742
Oakwood ............................713
San Leandro ......................744
Peninsula ............................745
Soquel ................................ 746
C la ude H . Morrison......... .747
H ighland ............................748
Merced ................................749
M other C olony .................. 750
H amilto n ........................... .75 I
Luther Burban k ............... .752
Lawndale ........................... .753
San Pablo ..........................751
Golden 13owl ..................... .755
C layton V alley ................. .756
C hannel ..............................757
W est Covin a ....................758
E l Rancho .......................... 759
Lakeside ........ .. ................... .760
Josiah W. Roller............... .761
Coastside ............................. 762
Arabic ................................ 763
Heritage ............................. .761
Dana R. Weller................. .765
James H . Kew....................766
W m. R hodes Hervey....... .767
Zenith ................................. .768
P almdale ........................... .769
Lake C habot ......................770
Mission Bay ...................... 77 1
A venal ................................ 772
Tejon ................................. .773
W aikiki ............................. .774
Sa n Oieguito ...................... 775
East Whittier ....................776

144
4 79
194
133
169
232
282
194
105
220
167
186
150
222
175
183
163
21 9
228
144
197
299
133
214
239
131
204

1954
1954
1954
1951
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
195 5
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957

90
115
100
100
125
115
125
115
100
100
100
80

147
192
184
143
158
159
297
257
162
231
62
223
173
2 19
230

G. L.

M~ mbcn

F~•

Due a

lnit.

Paned

R•i0<d

Per Capita

Co ·•trib .

5

20
16
18
18
18
20
20
18
24
18
24
25
15
21
18
16
18
18
20
20
18
18
21
16
20
16
15
20
20
18
20
18
18
15
20
21
21
15
16
15
18

10

12
8

12
9
12

1171.60
1175.00
1048.30
1447.00
1203.70
811.50
1828.50
1598.50
669.10
1079.60
2122.20
1362.60
868 .60
93 1.40
Hi.60
2289.10
1556.'IG
1194.00
837.20
1186.70
1461.90
1035.50
1467.60
1571.50
820.40
472.30
658.50
514.10
2525.70
1105.20
88 1.30
682.50
1174.10
979.70
178.80
1216.80
778.70
85 1.90
825.60
1028.00
830.30
888.80

175.00
375.00
215.00
235.00
31'5.00
231.00
6i\5.00
175.00
85.00
385.00
695.00
365.00
175.00
140 00
175.00
M 5.00
350 .00
330.00
295.00
190.00
50 5.00
350.00
420.00
180.00
305.00
70.00
95.00
21 0 .00
1110.00
295.00
100.00
35.00
585.00
120 .00
130.00
435.00
155.00
375.00
270.00
445.00
105.00

6 16.10
2017.90
806.20
552.30
887.90
943.20
120 1.00
901.10
468.50
928.00
729.70
830.60
634.00
923. 10
760.50
780 .30
6 84. 20
925 .90
999.80
6!6.40
960.60
1278 .90
597.30
907.20
1009.80
557. 10
862.30
620.50
861.20
780.10
599. 10
68 1.80
889.90
1271.60
1089 .60
6 53.00
963 .1 0
263.20
955.1 0
748.30
893.70
978.00

280.00
790.00
280.00
105 .00
280.00
370.00
760.00
175.00
35.00
245.00
9 5.00
285.00
180.00
260.00
120.00
365 .00
350 .00
375 .0'J
445 .00
245.00
110. 00
750.00
245.00
455.00
375 .00
140 .00
430 .00
44 5.00
380.00
340 .00
385.00
165 .00
225.00
680.00
375.00
350.00
670.00
140.00
620.00
155.00
110.00
340 .00

Aff iL

-

10
50
10

-

I

-

-

10

-

5

-

too

75
100
75
80
11 5
100
100
100
100
140
125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115
100

too

175

90
100

5

5

-

l

-

10

-

-

10

-

10
10

90

75
90
105
100
75

l

-

7
6
9
6
16
5
1
11
17
9

5

20
6
11

8
7
1

13
10
11

13
8
2
2
6
24
7
10
1
16
2
3
11
3
10
6
12

3

20
20
24
20
24
18
16
18
18
20
18
15
18
16
15
18
20
15
20

8
19
8
3
8
7
21

-

-

10

-

IO

-

-

l

-

-

5
5

IS

-

10

-

5

10

-

5
5
10

-

10

-

10

to
-

5

15
24
15
24
21
18
18
15
15
20
16
15
15
20
20
18
15
15
18
15
15
15

4
4
3

9

-

-

5

17

9

-

6
9
1
15
5
4
9
15

4

20

-

JO

5

JO

100

l 1,

1

JO

5
1
7
2
6
3
6
12
9

4
2

JO
11
12

It

9
3

1
4
30
10
7
2
17
2
3
9
3

11

5
9
2
12

JO
4
10
9
7
3

5

2
22
8
12
4
3

II
10
26
13
8
4
4
8
24
6
7
3
18
4
5
16
3
15

7

9

15
8
12

17

8
15
6
2
6
4
16
4
1
8
4
5

5

15

10
20

5
2
6
6
16
4
1

11
4

7

7

9

5
16
12

6
15
9

10

5

5

10
12
7
1
20
7
12
10
4
8
12
8
9
11
3

9
9
9
5
18

9
9
10
8
15
3
13
12
8
11

5
18
10
10
17
4
17

13
1
9

7

13
12
8
11
9
6

8

6

3
4
19
12
11
16
2
17
12
2
10

5
10
9
4
3
4
21
18
11
18
3
15

Ii
I
16

.ii.

N
00

315.00

.ii.

N

'°

Lod&c

No.

Pinnacle ..............................777
La Mirada ................ ..........778
Five Points ........................ 779
Riviera ------------.................... 780
Rolling Hills --------------------.781
Silverado ----------------------..... .782
Mojave ............................. .783
Leland Stanford --------...... .784
Paramou nt ................ ......... .785
Rio Linda ..... -·--·------------..... .786
Westmin ster ----·--·-----.. ·-----.787
Sierra ---·--··-··---.. -·-····----------.788
Oak Plains .................- .... .789
Granada Hills ................... .790
Gen. H enry H. Amold...... 791
-----------...792
Millbrae -------··-----M aya ......................___________793
Mt. Wilson ........................ 794
American River ------·--------.795
Golden Valley ................. .796
Tila Pass ........................... .797
Ashland ..............................798
Clairemont Mesa ................ 799
Rio Hondo .......................... 800
Koolau ................................801
Yucca Valley .................... 802
The Gabilan ...................... 803
Moreno Valley ..................804
Camellia .............................. 805
Simi Va lley ·--·-·-····-·--------... 806
Conejo Valley ..................807
Scepter ................................ 808
Los Alamitos ......................809
Victoria P alms .................. 810
Woodlan d Hills ................ 811
Triad ..................................812
Old West ............... ........... 81 3
Plaza de Los Angeles........ 814
Mount Baldy ....................81 5
Wm. B. O gden..................8 16

Membcrt

56
197
118
161
137
141
92
170
141
119
125
88
230
163
145
77
96
163
176
171
126
112
92
124
98
140
74
70
132
107
118
123
95
82
142
94
96
75
89
67

Charter
(19ucd

Degree
Fees

1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960
1961
196 1
1961
1961
1961
1961
1962
1962
1962
1962
1963
1963
1963
1964
1964

75
100
125
125
125
125
75
100
125
100
100
75
100
125

90
100
125
115
100
75
115
100
100
125
175
90
105
65
100
120
100
100
100
75
135
100
125
125
75
75

Affil.

Pe.,

Dues

lnit.

Paucd

Raised

1

2
11
9
7

2

-

15
18
20
15
15
18
20
18
18

10
10
-

IO

20

1

16
18
18

5

10

10

-

5
7

-10
10
25

-

-

2

-

10

-

10

-

10

-

-

20
15
18
18
15
15
15
15
18
18
18
15
20
24
16
15
18
18
20
18
18
15
16
15
20
18
18

11
4
8
5
7
2
9
9

...

10
1

24
12
9
2
6
7
8
7
12
6
1l
6
7

-

5

9
13
18
7
13
15
11
23
7
15
5
2
10

11

8
7
7
3

8
4
1

2

IO

10

10
3
11
I
23

H

12
10
1
5
9
12
10
8
6
12
6
6
1
6
13
8
11
5

14

11
5
13
5
8
7

1

6

5
5
1
23
II

11

2
5
9
H
11
9
6
9
4
7
2
8
12
7
9
8
9
14
6
16
8
7
6
7
9

G. L.

Mc mbe n
Concrib .

234.60
840.70
504.80
682.10
577.60
588.00
378.10
726.00
751.1 0
464.90
53850
355.60
1013.00
703.30
624.50
390.70
405.50
693.30
805.60
589. 10
685.60
477.20
409.20
524.40
421.80
542.00
217.40
321.00
569.20
476.70
468.80
536.20
429.50
393.20
599.20
380.40
423.60
325.50
384.90
324.70

35.00
41 0.00
165.00
355.00
175.00
270.00
95.00
315.00
350.00
140.00
350.00
35.00
865.00
470.00
315 .00
70.00
21 0.00
270.00
330.00
245.00
420.00
210.00
435.00
210.00
295.00

Per Capita

~

I.»

0

-

210.00
390.00
480.00
630.00
245.00
505.00
525.00
385.00
955.00
270.00
525.00
210.00
120.00
375.00

70.00
l 80.30
I
1
2
24
25
165
1964
44
Manhatta n ........................817
740.00
504.20
15
17
19
20
10
150
1964
102
818
......
G reat Lights ................
330.00
61 9.80
13
10
8
12
75
1965
118
470.00
Frank S. Land....................8 19
155.50
13
12
12
16
I
100
1965
85
820
_______
...
...............
Vista
Mar
165.00
184. IO
7
5
4
15
10
90
41
Gateway ............................ 821
515.00
240.10
6
6
9
15
90
51
822
...
...............
Boron ................
510.00
246.60
I
5
11
18
10
140
- 56
Maccabe e ............................823
memberTotal
n.
jurisdictio
this
Lodges and 3 under dispensation in
June 30, 1966, exclusive of Research Lodges, there were 708 chartered
ship - 243.572.
Northern California
Research ............................
Southern Californi a
Research .................._________ _
El Camino Research......... .
C entral Californi a
Research ............................

98

1952

133
54

1952
1958

70

1959

For membership and degree totals sec Report of Grand Secretary .

~
~

432

EXTIN CT LODGES, INCLU DING CONS OLIDA TIONS
Wes tern Star, Shasta, 1850. Consolid ated with Clinton No. 119, as Westtern Star No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
4.
4 Berryma n, Sacrame nto, 1850. Name changed to Jenning s No.
Jenning s, Sacrame nto, 1850. Charter surrend ered, May 6, 1853.
1853.
6 Sutter, Sacrame nto, 1850. Charter surrende red, May 6, to
San Francisc o
7 Davy Crocket t, San Francisc o, 1850. Name changed
No. 7, Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisc o, San Francisco. Charter revoked , May 13, 1859.
as
uolumne , Sonora, 1850. Consolid ated with Mount Jefferso n No. 107,
T
:;
1876.
er
Decemb
8,
No.
ne
Tuolum
T uolumne , Sonora. Consolid ated with Columb ia No. 28, as Sonora
No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
as
Tuolum ne, Sonora. Consolid ated with George Washing ton No. 62,
1919.
15,
Sept.
8,
No.
ne
Tuolum
69, as
9 Marysvi lle, Marysvi lle, 1850. Consolidated with Corinth ian No.
1874.
Dec.
9,
Corinth ian No.
ian
Corinthi an, Marysvi lle. Consolid ated with Yuba No. 39, as Corinth
No. 9. June 16, 1916.
of Oregon,
11 William ette, Portland , Ore., 1850. Transfer red to Jurisdic tion
Novemb er 1851.
Nashvill e, Nashvill e. Dispens ation 1851, Charter never issued. 88, and
13 Nevada, Nevada Cityr..}851. Consolid ated with Quitman No.
Manzan ita No. 102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
of Ore15 L a Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 185 1. Transfe rred to Jurisdic tion
gon, Novemb er 1851.
16 Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolid ated with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka
No. 16, Se pt. 2, 1919.
Pacific, Valparai so, Chile, Dispens ation 1853, Charter n ever issued.160, as
25 Georget own, Georget own, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No.
Georget own No. 25, Decemb er 1898.
151 , as
26 El Dorado, Placervi lle, 1853. Consolid ated with Palmyra No.
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
Palmyra , Placervi lle. Consolid ated with Mt. Zion No. 114, as Palmyra
No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
Palmyra , Placervi lle. Consolid ated with Acacia No. 92, as Palmyra
No. 26, Mar. 29, 1916.
Palmyra , Placervi lle. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26, Oct.8,10,as1929.
Tu28 Columb ia, Columbi a, 1853. Consolid ated with Tuolum ne No.
olumne No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
1873.
29 Diamon d, Diamon d Springs, 1853. Charter surrend ered Oct. 18,
Italiana
30 Golden Gate, S an Francisco, 1853. Consolid ated with Speranz a
No. 219, as Golden Gate Speranz a No. 30, July 1, 1966.
No. 78,
31 Mokelum ne, Mokelum ne Hill, 1853. Consolid ated with Calaver as
as Calaver as No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte. Bidwell. 1854. Charter surrend ered Sept. 3, 1864. No. 105, as St.
37 St. J ohn's, Yre ka, 1854. Consoli dated with Siskiyou
J ohn's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
37,
S t. J ohn's, Yreka. Consolid ated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No.
Dec. 8, 1924.
Corin39 Yuba, Marysvi lle, 1854. Consolid ated with Corinth ian No. 9, as
thian No. 9, June 16. 1916.
Oct. 15, 1897.
47 Michiga n City, Michiga n Bluff, 1854. Charter surrend ered
1856.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrend ered May 6,
49 Lebanon , San Francisc o, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
97, as
50 Forbesto wn, F orbestow n, 1854. Consoli dated with Jefferso n No.
Forbesto wn No. 50, July 19, 1926.
No52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrend ered
vember 1864.
53 Franklin , Sacrame nto, 1854. Charter surrend ered May 10, 1856.
2

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

433

Saint James, Jamesto wn, 1855. Charter surrend ered Feb. 20, 1875.
as
Gravel Range, Campton ville, 1855. Consolid ated with Forest No. 66,
Gravel Range No. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.
ne
62 George Washing ton, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consoli dated with Tuolum
No. 8, as Tuolum ne No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surr endered Oct. 29, 1857.
Natoma
64 Natoma, Folsom, 1855. Consolid ated with La trobe No. 189, as
No. 64, Decemb er 1884.
59, as
66 Forest, Alleghe ny, 1855. Consolid ated with Gravel Range No.
Gravel Range No. 59, S ept. 27, 1955.
67 Minneso ta, Minneso ta, 1855. Charter surrend ered May 14, 1859.
an
69 Indepen dent Royal Arch, Marysvi lle, 1855. Name changed to Corinthi
No. 69, May 2, 1855.
Corinth ian, Ma rysville. Consolid ated with Marysvi lle No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, Decemb er 1874.
80, as Ione
71 Nebrask a, Michiga n Bar, 1855. Consolid ated with Ione No.
No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada City, 1855. Charter surrend ered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown , 1855. Charter surrend ered Dec. 27, 1859.
29, 1857.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wiscons in Hill, 1855. Charter s urrende r ed Aug.
1870.
75 Mountai n Forest, Mounta in Forest, 1855. Charter surrende red May
180 as Peta77 Petalum a, P etaluma , 1855. Consolid ated with Arcturas No.
luma No. 180, Decemb er 1898.
31, as
78 Calavera s, San Andreas , 1855. Consolid ated with Mokelum ne No.
Calavera s No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
as
Calavera s, San Andreas . Consolid ated with Campo Seco No. 100,
Calaver as No. 78, October 1898.
as
Calavera s, San Andreas . Consolid ated with Mokelu mne Hill No. 298,
Calaver as No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
No. 80,
80 Ione, Ione, 1856. Consolid ated with Nebrask a No. 71, as Ione
Oct. 15, 1887.
1861 .
82 Mountai n, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrend ered May 18,
16, as
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolid ated with Eureka No.
Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
Mark's
85 Indian Digging $, Indian Digging s, 1856. Consolid ated with St.
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
St. Mark's, Fiddleto wn. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
ille No.
86 Saint Louis, R owland' s Flat. 1856. Consolid ated with Gibsonv
158, as Gibson ville No. 158, Novemb er 1882.
May 8
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman No. 88 '
'
1856.
NeQuitman , Nor th Bloomfi eld. Consolid ated with Nevada No. 13, as
vada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
1858.
90 Polar Star, P oorman' s Creek, 1856. Charter surrend ered May 8,
as North
91 North Star, Fort J ones,. 1856. Consolid ated with Owen No. 108,
Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
Palmyra
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolid ated with Palmyra No. 26, as
No. 26, Mar. 29. 1916.
to
93 Caymus , Yountvi lle, 1856. Moved to St. Helena and name changed
St. Helena No. 93, Oct. 10, 1867.
24, 1859.
94 Mount Hennon , Elizabet htown, 1856. Cbarter surrend ered Dec.
Howard
96 Howard , Yreka, 1856. Consolid ated with St. John's No. 37, as
No. 37, Dec. 8, 1924.
158, as
97 Jefferso n, La P orte, 1856. Consolid ated with Gibsonv ille No.
J e fferson No. 97. Oct. 15, 1908.
Jefferso n, La P orte, Consoli dated with F orbestow n No. 50, as Forbestown No. 50, J uly 19, 1926.
to
98 Quartzb urg, Q uarlzbur g, 1856. Moved to Hornitos and name changed
Hornito s No. 98, May 1860.
as Yo99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Consolid ated with Yosemit e No. 133,
semite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.

54
59

134
100
102
105

107
108
109
111
115

116
118
119
121
125
130
131
132
133
137
1~ 3

142
148
151
15'.l
lfl3
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
162
163
165

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as
.
.
Calaveras No. 78, October 1898.
Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as
S
,
.
.
Ne vada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
Sisk iyou, H enley, 1856. Consolidated with St. Johns No. 37, as t.
d
.
.
John's No. 37, Oct. 11 , 1876. .
Franklin, Meadow Valley. D1spensat10n 1857, Cha~er never issue .
,
Folsom. Folsom, Dis pensation 1857, Charter neve_r issued.
Mount J efferson, Garrotte, 1357. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as
T uolumne No. 8. December 1876.
Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, as North
Stdr No. 91, Oct. 15. 1908.
Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surre~dered Si;pt. 27, 1879.
Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as PalN
D. ·
d'
myra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Consolidated with In 1an 1ggmgs o.
85, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter s1;1rrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star No. 2, as Western
Star No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
Ionic, Iowa Hill. 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
Pronress, San Fran cisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct .. 14, 1870.
Nap°a City, Napa, Dispensation 1859, Charter never JSsucd.
Unity, San Bernardino. 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863. .
C;irpentcr, Wood's F erry, Dispensation 1858, was chartered m. 1859 as
Woodbridge No. 131, the name of the location of the Lodge havmg been
.
.
.
chang.:d to Woodbridge.
Sincerity, Greenville. 1859. Consolidated with Greenville No. 249, as
.
.
Sincerity No. 132, O_ct. 16, 1896.
Yosemite, Coulterv1lle, 1859. Consohdated with La Grange No. 99, as
Yos(·mite No. 99. Oct. 16, 1913.
Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862.
Vi ol<'t Spanish Flat. 1860. Cha rter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Colus~. Colusa . 1860. Consolid ated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
d
.
240. April 1, 1882.
Doric. North Fork, Dispensation 1861, Charter never issue .
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.
Pulmyra. Placerville, 1362. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palm yra No. 26. Oct. 16. 1902.
.To~ c phu s . B1u sh Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Risin g Sun, Bra ndy City, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 13, 1864. . .
Ca rson. Carson City, Ne vada Territory, 1862. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada. J an 16. 1865.
Mou nt C arm ~ l Red Dog. 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Woodln nd. Woodland. 1863. Consolidated with Tyrian No. 284, as Wood. .
la nd No. 156. Oct. 11, 1911.
Washoe, Washoe City. Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdic.
.
tion of Nevada. Jan. 16. 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonv ille. 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as
J efferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
Gil roy. Gilroy, 1863. Charter s urrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, as
Georr•etown No. 25, December 1898.
Virgi~ia City, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to
.
Jurisdiction of Nevada, J a n. 16, 1865.
Silver City, Silver City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Juris.
diction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
. .
Alpine. Markleeville. Dispe nsation 1864, Charter never issued.
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Junsd1ction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.

170

135

Esmeralda , Aurora, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1365.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 L ander, Austin, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transfer red to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
175 Cla iborne, Antioch, 1865. Name cha nged t o Antioch No. 175. Oct. 12,
1865.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrend~red Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, P rescott, Arizona Ter ritory. 1866. Transferred to J u risdiction of
Arizona, Mar. 25, 1882.
180 Arctur as, Petaluma , 1866. Consolida ted with Petalu ma No. 77, as Peta luma No. 180, December 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arb uckle No. 182, Oct. 16,
1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne, Oct. 10, 1867.
189 Latr obe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, as Natoma
No. 64, Oct. 17, 1884.
197 Paradise, Hayward, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin, Dispensation 1870, Charter never issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet
No. ~05 , Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic No. 218, Oct. 18,
1881.
219 Speranza ltaliana, San Francisco, 1872. Consolidated with Golden Gate
No. 30, as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966.
221 Inyo, Independence, 1872. Con solidated with Waucoba No. 413, as Inyo
No. 221 , Jan. 10, 1945.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432, as Roseville No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Hayward , Half Moon Bay, 1873 . Moved t o San Mateo and name
changed to San Mateo No. 226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, SomersviJJe . l!l73. Charter s urrende red Oct. 15, 1397.
235 Surprise Va lley, Cedarville, 1874. Consolid a ted with North E ast No.
266, as Surprlse Valley No. 235, July 1, 1962.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surr endered Oct. 16, 1834.
239 P escadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter su rre ndered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenvill e, lil78. Cons olidated with Sincerity No. 132, a s
Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Brothe rhood, Duncan's Mills, l!l78. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winncdumah No. 287, as Winned umah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
254 Reading, Reading, 1879. Consolidat ed with Kennett No. 456, as Reading
No. 254, Dec. 19, 1925.
255 Welcome, Lemoore, 1879. Consolidated with Riverdale No. 496, as Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
257 Arizona, Phoe nix, Arizona Territory, 1879. Transferred to Jurisdiction
of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Arizona T erritory, Dis pensation 1881, Tra nsferred
to Jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
260 King Solomon's, San Francisco, 1880. Consolidated with Seaport No.
550, as King Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Arizona Territory, 1881. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Arizona, March 25, 1882.
264 Hesperian, Santa Maria, 1882. Consolidated with Santa Maria No. 340,
as Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
266 North East, Fort Bidwell, 1882. Consolidated with Surprise Valley No.
235, as Surprise Valley No. 235, July 1, 1962.

436
270
276
277
284
287
290
298
311

339
340
341
342
350
360
364
370
371

373
384
386
398
413
414
432
438

453
454
456
474
496
536

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Selma, Selma, 1885. Consolidated with F owler No. 398, as Selma No.
277, Oct. 14, 1915.
Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, as Woodland No. 156 1 Oct. 11, 1911.
Winnedumah, Bishop, 1887. Consolidated with Bodie No. 252, as Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, Oct. 12,
1899.
Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, as Caleveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, as Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
Esperanza, Fullerton, 1900. Name changed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct. 13,
1904.
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
as Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
Oxnard, Oxnard, 1901. Consolidated with Hueneme No. 311, as Oxnard
No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred t o Jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1904. Consolidated with Victory No. 474,
as San Francisco-Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961 .
Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet
No. 205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Amity, San Francisco, 1905. Consolidated with Seal Rock No. 536, as
Amity-Seal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu. T. H., 1905. Name changed to Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12. 1916.
Veteran, Sawtelle, 1906. Name changed to West Los Angeles No. 373,
Oct. 12, 1939.
El Centro, El Centro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as El Centro No. 384. Aug. 30, 1937.
Corregidor, Manila. P. I., 1907. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, as Selma
No. 277, Oct. 14. 1915.
Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo
No. 221, Jan. 10, 1945.
Arlington, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438, as
Arlington No. 414. Sept. 28, 1959.
Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222, as Roseville No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Germania, Los Angeles. 1913. Name changed to Acacia No. 438, Oct. 16,
1918.
Acacia, Los Angeles. Consolid ated with Arlington No. 414, as Arlington
No. 414, Sept. 28, 1959.
Bethlehem, San Francisco, 1915. Consolidated with Crocker No. 454, as
Crocker No. 454, April 1, 1961.
Crocker, Daly City, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem No. 453, as
Crocker No. 454, April 1, 1961.
K ennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with l'teading No. 254, as Reading
No. 254, Dec. 19, 1925.
Victory, San Francisco, 1919. Consolidated with San Francisco No. 360,
as San Francisco- Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.
Riverdale, Riverdal e, 1921. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, as Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
Seal Rock, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Amity No. 370, as
Amity-Seal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

542
545
550
553
554
597
611
612
616
628
640
664
799

437

Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, Oct. 12, 1950.
Jonathan, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Veritas No. 640, as
Veritas-Jonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963.
Seaport, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with King Solomon's
No. 260, as King Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
as Educator No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
Educator, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Golden City No. 553,
as Educator No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West
No. 628, as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Owensmouth, Owensmouth, 1925. Subsequent to the name of the community being changed to Canoga Park, the name of the Lodge was
changed to Canoga Park No. 611, Oct. 15, 1931.
Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City No. 612,
Oct. 10, 1929.
Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth
No. 597, as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Veritas, San Francisco, 1926. Consolidated with Jonathan No. 545, as
Veritas-Jonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963.
Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, as El
Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.
Bay Claire Vista, San Diego. Name ch anged to Clairemon t Mesa
No. 799, October 15, 1964.

438

1869

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A . M.
1850

Since Its Organization. April 18. A. L. 5850
1856

Jonathan D. Stevenson .. G. M.
Callfornla No. I
lorn J.n. I, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 18'4
John A. Tutt ...... ...... 0. G. M.
Caleb Fenner...,.,,_,_S, G. W.
Sashel WoodL ..........J. G. W .
Levi Stowell ............-........ G. T.
John H. Gihon................G . S.

1851
John A. Tutt..................G . M.
Tehama No. !
Born Feb. 4, 1111
Died May It, ltOO
Benj. D. Hyem ...... D. G . M.
E. F. F. Ellk ............... S. G. W .
Benj. S. Olds .... ........ J . G. W .
Townsend A. Th omas...._.G . T.
Levi Stowell ................... G . S.

1852
Benjam in D. Hyam .. G. M.
Benicia No. 5
Born March I, lllJ
Diad July 12, 1893
Chas. M. Radeliff ......D. G. M.
Addison Marlin .... . ......... G.T.
J. R. McConnell... .....J. G . W.
Addison Martin .....-.........G . T.
Levi Stowell .......... ...........G. S.

1853
Charles M. RadclilL ... G. M.
Tuolumne No. I
Born Feb. 5, 1811
Died Doc. JI , 1889
r. A. Thomas ....... ... D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall. ....... S. G . W.
Richard F. Knofl .... .... J. G. W.
Add ison Martin .............. G. T.
Levi Stowell........ ............ G. S.

1854

William H. Howard ...... G . M.
J ohn A. Reymond .... D. G . M .
Lemu el Lyon..............S. G. W .
Peter W . Rendle...... J . G . W .
Addison Mertin..............G. T.
Ale x G. Abell .................. G. S.

1863

William C . Belcher........ G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G . M.
Louis Cohn ................S. G. W .
Wm. A . Oavie 1.-........J. G. W .
James Leidley..................G. T.
Ale1 G. Abell... ..- .......... G. S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtls.. .... G. M.
Wa1hln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. t, 1825
Died July 12, rm
Charles Mersh ......... ... D. G. M.
Aaron D. ParL ......... S. G. W.
John B. Pope .............J. G. W.
Ad dison Martin ,,_........... G. T.
Aler G . Abell ................G. S.

1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis...... G. M.
P. W . .)hepheard .... D. G. M.
Wm. McCormicL .... S. G. W.
Ju. W . Bic~nell ....... J. G . W .
Addison Martin .............. G . T.
Alox G. Abell ............. .... G. S.

1859
Natha niel G. Curtis .. G . M.
P. W . Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Ebenozer Lene .. ....... S. G. W .
Thos. P. Hewley ........J. G . W .
Addison Martin ............. G. T.
Alex G . Abell .... ... ....... G. S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis ... G . M.
P. W. Shepheard ..... D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher.... .... S. G. W,
Alvinze HaywMd ... J . G. W .
Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Alex G. Abell .. .. ......... G. S.

1861
James l. English
Sacramento No. 40

... G. M.

Born June S, 18 fl
William H . H oward .... G. M.
Died Mey 2', 1889
San Josa No. 10
{ Wm. C. Belch.r .. D. G . M.
Born Au9. 29, 181 0
Died Sept. II, IW
John W. Harville ......S. G. W .
Nath. G . Curlil........ D. G . M. C aleb E. W ilcoxon . J. G . W.
Rector E. C ole ...... S. G . W. James Laidley........... .... G . T.
Robt. N . Wood ..........J . G. W. Alex G . Abell ..... .. ... . G . S.
Addison Martin ..............G . T.
1862
Levi Stowell ................... G. S.
Willia m C . Belcher....... G. M.
Corinthian No. '9
1855
l orn Dec. 12, 1820
William H. Howard ...... G . M.
Died Sept. I, 18'15
T. A. Th omas.. ............ D. G. M. Gil. B. Cla iborne .... . 0. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ...... S. G. W . John W. Herville ...... S. G . W.
Sam. A. Merritt........J. G. W. J ohn 8. Hewson....... .J. G. W.
Addison Martin .............. 6. T. j James leidley .... ........... G. T.
Levi Stowell ....... - ........&. S.
Alex G. Abell.. ...... ......... -. S.

439

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1864
William C . Belcher ....... G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... O. G. M.
Wm. A. Oevle1... ....... S. G. W.
lsuc S. Titus.. ............J. G . W .
James Laldley................. .G. T.
Alu G. Abell.................. G. S

1865
Gilbert B. Cleiborne...... G. M.
S•n Joaquin No. It
Born 1121
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wm. A. Davles.......... D. G. M .
Isaac S. Titu1............ S. G . W .
Henry H . Hertley ......J . G . W.
Jemes Leidley .................. G. T.
Aln G. Abell... ...............G. S.

1868
Gilbert B. Claiborne ... G . M.
Henry H. Hertley...... D. G. M.
Wm. H . Peterson ..... S. G. W.
Thomes BecL.....-...... J. G. W .
James Laidley .................. G . T.
Alu G. Abell ............... G. S.

1867
William A. Davies .... ..... G. M.
Colurnbl• No. 2t
Born Feb. 5, 1127
Died June 20, 1916
Henry H. Hertley.... D. G . M .
Thomas BecL ....... ... S. G. W .
Leonides E. Pratt ...... J . G. W .
JamH A. Laidley............G . T.
Alex G . Abell.. .......... .... G. S.

1888
Charles Merah............... G. M.
Nevada No. U
Born Dec. 6 1121
Died April 21, 1176
Theo. G. Coekrill...... S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Prttt...... D. G. M.
Fredk. F. Berss .......... J . G . W.
James Laldley ..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.

..........
Leonides
I G. M.
d N
M t IE. ShPrett
o. 1
lo~~nA:~. 2'•
Died Oct. 25: 1116
Isaac S. Titus..............D. G . M.
John S. Werd ..... - ....S. G. W.
Richard Dale.............. J. G. W.
James Leidley.................. G. T.
Al.. G . Abell.. _________,.G. S.

I

tin

1870

Leonides E. Prett............ G. M.
lsuc S. Titus ......- .. D. G. M.
G. w.
Chu. l. Wlggln .....
Benj. H. Freeman......J. G. W.
James Leldley.................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

,_.s.

1871
Leonides E. Pratt.......... G. M.
Chu. L. Wiggln........ D. G. M.
Ben. H. Freemen...... S. G. W .
Geo. C . Perkins ........J. G . W .
Jemes Leldley.... ,_............ G. T.
Al.. G. Abell........_ ______G. S.

1883

1876

John M. Browne ............G • "M ,
Ches. l. Wiggin ...... D. G . M.
Wm. S. Wells. ........... S. G . W.
Solon W . Craigue....J . G. W.
James Leidley.................. G . T.
Alex G. Abell. ................ .G . S.

1877
John M. Browne........... G . M.
Chas. L Wiggin ...... 0. G . M.
Wm. W . Traylor ........ S. G . W.
Wm. t-l . Crene.......... J . G. W ,
Moses Heller ....... ........... G. T.
Alex G . AbelL. ............... G. S.

1878
John M. Browne ............ G . M.
Wm. W. Traylor........ D. G. M.
Wm. H .. Crane ........ S. G . W.
Robt. C. Brodor........ J . G . W .
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alex G . Abell............... G. S.

1879

1872

Leonidas E. Pratt..........G . M.
Benj. H. Freemen ...... D. G. M.
Geo. C. Perklns... .....S. G . W.
John M. Browne...._ .J. G. W.
James laidley..................G. T.
Al .. G. Abell..__.......... G. S.

1873
lsuc S. Titus................ G. M.
Sen Jo•quln No. It
lorn Oct. I~ 1827 •
Died April .u, tm
Geo. C. Perklna........ D. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne ........ S. G. W.
Chai. E. Mltchell ......J. G. W.
J•mes Leldley............_ .. G. T.
Al .. G. Abell.................. G. S.

1874

William W. Tre ylor........ G . M .
Calllornle No, I
Born March 17, 1122
Died Jan. II, I HJ
Samuel C . Denson .. D. G . M.
Clay W. Taylor ........S. G. W.
J ohn Q. Adams ....... J . G . W.
Moses Heller ................. G . T.
Alex G. Abell ................. G. S.

Jonathan D. Hines ..._ .. G. M.
S•n luen..entur• No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1125
Died Dec. 30, 118'
Wiley J. Tinnin . ...... D. G. M.
Ed m. C . Atkinson ...... S. G . W .
Hiram N. Ruder......J. G . W.
Moses Heller ................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ................ G. S.

1884
Jonathan D. Hines........ G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ........ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Ruck ..r .. .... J. G. W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............G. S.

1885
Wiley J . Tinnin............. G. M.
Trinity No. 11
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... D. G. M.
Hiram N. Ruder......S. G . W.
Henry H . Knapp ......J . G, W .
Nathan W Spauldin9 ....G. T.
Ale• G. Abell............ ..... G . S.

1888
Edmund C. AHinson .... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
lorn No•. 17..L..I 837
Died March 1:11, ltl I
Hiram N. Ruder ...... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee ........ S. G. W.
Alvah R. Conklin .... J. G. W,
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ....... ........ G. S.

1880
Samuol C . Denson ........ G. M.
Union No. 5t
lorn Sept. 2J, 18]9
Died July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor........ D. G. M.
J ohn Q. Adams .... ... S. G. W.
0. W. Hollenbeck.. .. J . G . W,
Moses Heller .................. G . T.
Alex G. Abe ll................. G. S.

1887
Hiram N. Ruder .......... G. M.
La Gran~• No. "
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. ll, 1'°5
Morris M. Estee ..._.... D. G. M.
Alvali R. C on Uin ___ S. G. W
Wm. Joi.nst on..........J . G. W .
Nathan W Spa ulding .... G . T.
Alu G. Abell.. ................ G . S.

George C. PerUns..•- .. G. M.
Orovllle No. IOJ
1881
lorn A1>9. 23, lilt
Died Feb. 26, rm
Clay W . Teylor..- ......... 6. M.
Wolfern Star No. 2
John M. Browne..._ .. O. G. M.
lorn Sept. 10, 1144
Wm. B. Perku..........S. G. W.
May I, 1897
Olod
Wiley J . Tinnln _ _ _J , G. W .
J ohn Q. Adams........ D. G. M.
James Laldley........____G. T.
Jonathan D. H ines ... S. G . W.
AIH G. AbelL............... G. S. Th os. J. Bowers. ......... J . G. W .
M oses Heller ................ G. T.
1888
1875
John M. Browne............ G. M. Alex G. Abell.. ................ G. S. Morris M. Estee............G . M.
N•••I No. 17
Cellfornla No. I
1882
lorn M•y 10, 1131
Born Nov. 2l, ll:M
Died Dec. 7, 1194
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Clay W. Taylor ............. G. M.
Ches. L W iggin...... D. G. M. Jonathan D. Hine1... 0 . G . M. Alveh R. Conklin...... D. G. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnin ..........S. G. W, Edm. C . AtUnson ...... S. G . W , William J ohnston ......S. G. W.
Jacob H. Neff..........J . G . W. George Hinds.. ..........J G . W. Mere. D. 8oruck........ J. G. W.
Jame1 Laldley.................. G. T. Moses Heller .................. G . T. Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Al.. 6. Abell- ............. G. S. Al .. G. Abell.... .............. G. S. Ale• G . Abell........ ______,,$. S.

I

I

440

PROCEEDI NGS OP THE

1811

1895

Morris "'1. &t••----···--··G. M.

Edward M. Preston ....... G. M.
Nevada No. 13
!lorn May 4, IMI
Died "prll 24, 1901
Wm. T. Lucas............ O. G. M.
Thomas Flint..............S. G . W .
F. M . Angellotti... .....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............ G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

Wllliem Johnston .... 0. G. M.
ChH. R. Grltman ......S. G. W.
Henry S. Orm• ........ J . G . W.
Nathan W Spa1.1ldin9 ....G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ............... G. S.

1890
Alveh R. Conklin_.......... G. M.
Inyo No. 211
Born 1935
Died Oet. l, 1"7
William Johnston._... O. G . M.
Chas. R. Gritman ....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J . G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Georg• Johnson ···-·······G. S.

1902

1908

Orrin S. Hendarson ......G. M.
Mornln9 Star No. 61
Born June !..186!
Died June D, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting ....O. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter......S. G. W.
Motley H. Flint........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............ G . T.
George Johnson ... ...._ ... G. S.
Wm. H . Edwards .. ......G. L

Oscar Lawle r..................G . M.
East Gate No. 290
lorn April 2, 1171
Died Jan. 3, 1966
W , Frank Pierce ........D. G. M.
Dana R. Waller ........S. G. W.
A. J . Monroe ............J. G. W .
Edward Colemen ............ G . T.
John Whicher________....... G . S.
Thomes J . Baker..............G . L.

1897
Thomes Flint ................. .G. M.
Texas No. 4'
Born May It 1159
Died N<W. Ii, 1'16
F. M. Angellotti... .... .D. G. M.
Ches L. Patton .......... S. G . W .
Jas. A. Foshay .......... J . G. W .
Edward Colemen ............ G . T.
George Johnson ............G. ~-

1892

1898

Charles R. Gritman ...... G. M .
Yount No. 12
lorn Dec. 10, 1839
Died Mey 14, 18'4
Henry S. Orme........ D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens.......... S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston........J. 6. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Georg• Johnson ...- ....... G. S.

Frank M. Angellottl......6. M .
Marin No. ltl
lorn Sept. 4, 1861
Died Mey 23, 1932
Chas. L. Patton ........ D. G. M.
Jes. A. Foshey.......... S. G . W .
Wm. S. Wells....... ....J . G. W .
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ....... ....G. S.

1894
Jamel II. Stevens .......... G . M.
Yount Ho. 12
Born Merell 211 1141
Died Dec. 6, IYlt
Edw. M. Pre1ton ........ O. G. M.
Thomas Flint... ........... J . G. W.
Wm. T. Lueas._ ........ S. G . W .
Edwud Coleman............G. T.
6ew9• Johnson ··--·-····G. S.

1107
George M . Parine........ 6 . M.
P•ciflc No. 116
lorn 1952
Died Oct. 6, ltJl
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler .......... S. G . W .
W. Funk Pierce ........J . G . W.
Edward Coleman ... ...... ... G . T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Thomas J . Baker ............. G. l.

1898

1891

Henry S. Orme..............G. M.
So. Callfoml• No. m
!lorn Me1th 2Sl llJ7
Died N<W. 2', tl2
Ju. B. Stevens..........O. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston ........ S. G. W.
Wm. T. lucas............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............G. T.
George Johnson ...- ....... G. S.

1901
William S. Wall1-......... 6 . M.
Martinez Mo. 41
Born June 24, 18il
Died Jan. 2J, ltlt
0 . S. Henderson ......O. G . M.
Ches. W. Nutting ... S. G . W .
Geo. W . Hunter ..... J . G. W .
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.
Wm. H . Edwards ............ G. L

William T. lucas .. .......... G. M.
Guadalupe No. 2!7
lorn March II, 1850
Died Mereh 21, 1'11
Tho!nas Flint... ....- ..... 0 . G . M .
F. M. Angellottl........S. G . W.
Ches. L. Petton ........J. G. W .
Edward Colemen............ G . T.
George Johnson ···-·······G S.

William J ohnston ..........G. M.
Frenklln No. 143
lorn Jun• 2, 1121
Died Nov. 14, 190I
Chu R. Gritmen ...... O. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ........ S. G. W.
Ju. B. Stevens..........J . G . W .
Nathan W Spaulding ....G . T.
Georg• Johnson ............ G. S.

1893

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1899
Charles L. Patton ......... G. M.
Callfornle No. I
lorn 1"5
Died April It, Im
Ja1. A. Foshey...- ..... D. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells........... . S. G. W.
0 . S. Henderson ......J . G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
Georg• Johnson ............ G . S.

1900
James A. Foshey............G. M.
So. California No. m
Born Nov. 23, 1954
Died Jen. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells ............ D. G . M.
0 . S. Henderson ..... S. G. W .
Ches. W . Nutting ....J . G. W .
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............G. L

1903

1909

Charles W . Nutting ..... G. M.
E-tenln9 Star No. 18'
Born Oct. l 1•2
Died Sept. 20, ltl7
Geo. W . Hunter ...... 0 . G. M.
Motely H. Flint.. ____ S. G . W.
Edw. H . Hart............J. G . W.
Edward Coleman....... _... G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............G. L

W . Frank Plerce ............G . M.
Oakland No. Ill
Born Jen. 16, 1m
Died Oct. J, 1910
Dana R. Weller ........ 0. G . M.
A. J . Monroe............S. G . W.
Wm. P. Rimer ..........J . G . W .
Edward Colemen ....- ......G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Th omas J . Baker .............. G . L.

lllS
John 0. Murphey ........ G. M.
"lie No. 333
lorn July 7, lt&l
Died Sept. IS, 1945
Benj. F. Bledsoe .... D. G . M.
Alb. G. Burnett ... S. G. W .
F. V. Keesling . .... J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer ........ G. T.
J ohn Whieher ................. G . S.
Thomas J . Baker .. .......... G. L.

441
1919

Charles Albert Adams..G. M.
&colslor No. "'
Sorn No• . 25, 18'7
Diod Moy I , 1962
Geo . F. Rodden ........ D. G . M.
Sam. E. Burke ...•.....S. G . W .
W m. A. Sh erman .. .... J . G . W.
Wm . Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher.......... .. ...... G . S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G . L

1914

1920

Benj. F. Bledsoe ............ G. M.
Sen Bernardino No. 141
Born Feb. I , 1874
Died Oct. 30, 1m
Alb . G . Burnett........ D. G . M .
F. V. Keesling ............S. G . W.
W . Rh. Hervey..........J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G . T.
J ohn Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker .............. G . L.

George F. Rodden ........ G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dec.24, 1867
Died Merch I , 1'14
Sam. E. Burke ....... - ... 0. G . M.
Wm. A. Sherman ...... S. G . W.
Arthur S. Crites ........J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- ...... G . T.
J ohn Whicher.. _..............G . S.
Thomas J . Baker............. G. L

1915

1921

Albert G . Burnett .........G . W.
Santa Rosa No. S7
Born Aprll • . I~
Died "u9. 15, 1m
F. V. Keesling ........... D. G . M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey ..... S. G . W.
Bradford Webster....J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Rlmer.......... G . T.
J ohn Whicher ................ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L

Sa muel E. Burke .......... G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Died Feb. 14, 1961
Wm. A. Sherman ...... D. G . M.
Arthur S. Crltes ........ S. G . W.
David J. Reese .. ........J . G. W,
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G . T.
John Whicher ............. .... .G. S.
Th omas J . Baker.............. G. l .

1904

1910

1918

1922

Georqe W. H unter......G . M.
Humboldt No. 7'
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, Im
Motley H. Flint........ D. G . M.
Edw. H. Hart............S. G . W .
Geo. M. Perine ........J . G. W .
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ........... .G . S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............G. L

Dana R. Weller.............. G . M.
So. Callfornle No. 271
lorn M.,ch 24, 1874
Died Jan. ' · IKI
A. J . Monroe............C>. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer........_S. G . W .
J. O. Murphey ..........J . G. W .
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
John Whicher.................. G . S.
Thomas J . Baker... ........... G . L

Frencis V. Keesling ...... G . M.
Callfornla No. I
Born Fob. 17, Im
Died Sept. 25, 1963
Wm . Rh . Hervey..... 0 . G . M.
Bradford Webster .. S. G . W .
Charles A. Adams.. ..J . G . W.
Wm . Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher ................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker
.. .... G . L.

William A. Sherman..... G . M.
Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, lt«I
Arthur S. Crites........ D. G . M.
David J . Reese.......... S. G . W.
Alb. E. Boynton ........ J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher .................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G . l.

1911

1917

Motley H. FlinL ........... G. M,
Eu! Gala No. 2'0
lorn Feb. 19, 1861
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H . Hart........ O. G. M.
Geo. M. Parine........ S. G. W.
Reuben H . Lloyd ...... J . G. W ,
Edward Cclemen ............ G . T.
George Johnson ____....... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ........... G . L

Alon10 J. Monroe .... ..... G. M.
Humbeldt No. 7'
lorn Oct. It, 1159
Died June 14, 1'22
Wm. P. Filmar.......... 0. G . M.
J . D. Murphay..._ ..... S. G. W.
Bonj. F. Bledsoa .......•J. G . W.
Edward Colaman ............ G . T.
John Whicher.................. G . S.
Thomes J. Bakar.............. G. L

1908

1912

Wm. Rhodes Hervey ... G . M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born March 26, 1'70
Died Feb. I. 1953
Bradford Web1ter . . D. G. M.
Charle1 A. Adams.... S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden..
J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ......... G . T.
J ohn Whicher .... ... .. ........ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G . L.

Edwerd H . Hart ............G . M.
Live 01'\ No. 61
Born 1151
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perine .... .... D. G. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... S. G. W .
Oscar Lawler .......... J . G. W .
Edward C oleman ............G. T.
George Johnson ···-·······G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ........... G. L

Wm. P. Filmar................ G . M.
1Ctn9 Solomon No. 260
lorn March 7, 1866
Died N<W. n, 1942
Jno. 0 . Murphey...... O. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe....... S. G . W .
Alb. G . Burnett ........J . G . W.
Edward Colemen ............ G . T.
John Whlchar......... ......... G. S.
Thomas J. lleler .... - ......- G . l.

1905

1918

1923
Arthur S. Crites ............ G. M.
Bakersfield No. 224
Born Feb. 4, 197'
Died Apr. 28, 1957
David J. Reese ..........D. G . M.
Alb. E. Boynton ........ S. G . W.
Geo. L Jones............ J . G. W .
Wm. Parke r Filmer.......... G . T.
J ohn Whicher.................. G . S.
Thomas J. Ba~er.............. G. L

1924

Bradford Webster ...... G . M. David J. Reese.............. G . M.
Sen luenaventur• Ho. 214
live Oak No. 61
Born Au9, 21, 1871
Born Dec. 14, 11'9
Clad June 4, 1'41
Died Nov. '· 1934
Charles A. Adams ... 0. G . M. Alb. E. Boynton ......... O. G. M.
G eo. F. Rodden ....... S. G . W . Geo. L. Jones ............ S. G . W.
Sam. E. Burke
J . G . W _ W ill H. Fischer..........J . G . W.
Wm . Pa rker Filmer . . .. G . T. Wm. Parker Filmer......_.. G. T.
John Whicher.................. G . S. John Whicher ................. .G. S.
Thomas J . Baker .. ........... G . L. Thomes J . Bakar._________ G. L.

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1925

1931

1937

Albert E. Boynton ..........G. M.
Oroville No.IOS
Born Oct. 9, 1975
Died Feb. 22, 1945
Geo. l. J ones............ D. G . M.
Will H. Fischer.......... $. G. W.
Gus A. Hutaff..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G . T.
John Whieher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Beker..............G. l.

Robt. B. Gaylord .......... G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1176
Died Au9. 4, "53
Frank W. Mixter ......D. G. M.
James B. Gist...........S. G. W.
W m. A. Sitton ..........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G. T.
John Whieher................ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker........ ..... G. l.

James T. Fraser..............G . M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Au9. 28, 18'8
Diod Juno 26, 1953
Leon 0. Wh itsell ...... D. G . M.
William H. Waste .... S. G. W.
William B. Ogden ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ......... G. T.
G. S.
John Whieher.. .. .
Leslie E. Wood ............... G . L.

1928
George L. Jones............ G. M.
Madison No. 2l
Born May II, 1873
Died JuH 22, 1956
Will H. Fiseher........O. G. M.
Gus. A. Huteff..........S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
Joh~ Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Beker..............G. l.

1927
Will H. Fischer .............. G. M.
Wllshlre No. 445
Born Sept. II , 187S
Died Oct. 4, 1953
Gus. A. HutefL ....... O. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg .... $. G. W.
J . S. Ross....................J . G. W.
Wm. Perker Filmer........ G. T.
John Whicher..................G . S.
Thomas J. Baker .............. G. l.

1928
Gustev A. Hutaff.......... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 2'7
Born Oct. I, 187'
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G. M.
J. S. Ross .................. S. G. W.
Robt. 8. Gaylord ......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmar ..........G. T.
John Whlcher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker. ............. G. l.

1929

C. M. Wollenberg ........c;. M.
Starr Kln11 No. S44
Born March U, 1171
Died Oct. 22, 1962
John S. Ross.............. D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord ......$. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G . T.
John Whicher. ................. G. S.
Thomas J. Beker.............. G. l.

1932
Frank W. Mixter ............G. M.
Exe hr No. 424
Born Doc. 30, 1873
Died May 22, 1947
James 8. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton .......... S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ............J. (;. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J, Baker..............G. L.

1933
James B. Gist............... G. M.
Penlalpha No. 202
Born Au9. 8, 1868
Died April 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting ... ..... D. G . M.
Earl Warre n............. S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller ........ J . G. W .
W!":".. l'arker Filmer ......... G. T.
John W hicher.................. G. S.
Th omes J . Baker............. G . L.

1934
Randolph V. Whiting .. G. M.
Kin9 Solomon No. 260
Born No•. 30, I870
Died Feb. 4, 1952
Earl 'W arren .............. D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller .. ......$. G. W.
James T. Fraser........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Fil..,er .........G. T.
John Whicher ................. G. S.
Lesfio E. Wood ....... ....... .G. l.

1935
Earl Warren ................... G. M.
Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, 18'1
Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser .......S. G . W.
Leon 0 . Whitsell......J . G. W.
W m. Parker Filmer. .. .. G . T.
J ohn Whicher ................ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ... .... .. G . L.

1930

1936

John Stewart Ross ........G. M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21, 1879
Died Au11. ll , 1952
Robt. B. Geylord ...•..D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter ........ S. G. W.
James B. Gist............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whieher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker. ............. G. L.

Rollie W. Miller........ G . M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1883
Died July 18, 1960
James T. Fraser....... D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsell...... S. G. W.
W illiem H. Waste ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parler Filmer... .... G. T.
John Whicher .................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood. ......... ... .. G. L

443

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1938
Leon 0. Whitsell......... G. M.
Oran9e Gro¥9 No. 293
Born July 10, 1876
Died Feb. 25, 1%6
William H. Waste .... D. G. M.
William B. Ogden ....S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whieher. .................G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............... G. L.

1939
William B. Ogden ........ G. M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born Au9. 26, 187'
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson ........ D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith....... S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood .. .....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher. ...............G. S.
Waller Leonard ............. G. L.

1940
Lloyd E. Wilson..............G . M.
ln9laslde No. 630
Sorn Aug. 16, 1895
Died No• . 2, 1961
Frank M. Smilh .......... D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Welter Le onard.............. G. L.

1941
Frank M. Smith .............. G. M.
East Gato No. 290
Born April I, 1894
Died April 7, 1951
Leslie E. Wood ......... D. G. M.
Claude H. Morrison .. S. G. W.
G. C. DeForost........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
Ll oyd E. Wilson..............G . S.
Cheste r H. Warlow........ G. L.

1942
Leslie E. Wood .............. G. M.
Provident No. 609
Born Aprll 2, 1897
Claude H. Morrison .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..$. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson..............G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........G. L.
Lawrence C. Kelley..J. G. W.

1943
C laude H. Morrison ...... G. M.
San Di190 No. l5
Born July 10, 1887
Died Nov. 2, 1953
G il bert C. De Forest.. D. G . M.
Lawrence C. Kelley.. $. G. W.
Arthur W. Brou illet ..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson... _.....- ...G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........ G. L.

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ............ G . M.
Libera l Arts No. &n
Born Feb. 27. 1905
Arthur Pa ulsen .......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapea u .....S. G . W.
Arthur M. Werren ....J . G . W.
Francis V. Keesling........ G . T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ..............G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G . L.

194'

1950

G ilbert C. DeForest......G. M.
Readln11 No. 2~
Born Sept. 18, 188'
Died Jan. 25, 1952
Lawrence C. Kelley .. 0. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..$. G. W.
John R. Moore..........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesfing ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson.............. G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........G. L.

Arthur Paulsen ···-··-···G. M.
Trlnity No. 11
Born May 4, 18'0
l oui• C. Drapuu ......D. G. M,
Arth ur M. Warren....S. G. W.
Fronk Harwell, Jr..... J . G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .... ......... G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L.

1945
Lawrence C. Kelley......G. M.
Penlalpha No. 202
Born July 23, I889
Dlod Oct. 24, 1945
Arthur W. Brouillet...... G. M .
Park No. 449
Born Jan. 21, 1884
Died Sop!. 18, 1953
John R. Moore........S. G. W.
Francis V. Keeslin9 ........G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G . S.
Chester H. Warlow........ G. L.

1946
John R. Moore .............. G. M.
Meridian No. 667
Born So pt. 1893
Died Morch 28, 1965 •
Chester H. Warlow.. D. G. M.
Edward H. Siems ......S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer........ J . G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Arthur M. Werren .......... G. L

1947
Chester H. Warlow...... G. M.
Fresno No. 247
Born Juno 30. 188'
Died December 10, 1963
Edward H. Siems ...... D. G . M.
Ellsworth Meyer........ S. G . W.
Arthur Paulsen........J. G. W.
Franc is V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson- ............ G . S.
Arthur M. W11rren ..........G. L.

1948
Edwerd H. Siems ..........G. M.
Plymouth No. 560
Born December 7, 1903
Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G . M.
Arthur Paulsen ..........S. G. W.
Louis C. Drapeau ..... J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................ G.S.
Arthur M. W1rren .......... G. L.

1951

Louis C. Drapeau . ...... e . M.
Polnsottla No. 6)3
Born Aug . lO, 18~
Arthur M. Warren .. D. G . M
Frank Harwell, Jr~ ... S. G . W
Henry C. Cleusen....J . G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ...... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson................ G .S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G . L.

1955
Edgar V. Stewart, J r •.... G.M.
Loyally No. 52'1
Born Oct. 3, 1901
L. Harold Anderson .. D.G .M.
Leo E. Anderson ........S.G.W.
Phil N. MyerL. ...........J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems............ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Davis................G.L

1956
L Harold Anderson ........ G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1899
Leo E. Anderson ........ D.G.M.
Phil N. Myers..............S.G.W.
Joe L. Shell .................J .G.W.
Edwa rd H. Siems..............G.T.
Lloyd E. Wil•on .............. G. S.
Elbert W, Devis... ____ ,.... G.L

1957
Leo E. Anderson ............ G.:-..4.
Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20, 1902
Phil N. Myers............D.G.M.
Joe L Shell................S.G.W .
Alfred F. Breslauer......J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems.. _ .......G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Elbert W. Davis................ G.L.

1952
Arthur M. Warren ........G . M.
loAt. Dovidson No. 481
Born Docember 27, 1901
Died May 21, 1964
Fran k Harwell, Jr•... 0. G . M.
He nry C. Cla usen S. G. W.
Edg ar V. Stewart, .Jr. J. G . W .
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T,
Lloyd E. Wilson ................ G .S.
Elbert W. Davis ........... .G . l.

1953
Fra nk Harwell, J r......... G. M.
Bovorly Hiiis No. S78
Born October 4. le98
Di•d Jan. 25, 1966
Henry C . C l.. usen.... D. G . M.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr... S. G . W.
L. Herold Anderson ..J .G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ..........G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson...... . G. S
Elbe rt W. Davie .......... G. L

1954

He nry C . Claus~n .... .G .M.
Ingleside No. 630
Born June 30, I ~
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr ... D.G.M.I
L. Harold And11rson.... S.G.W .
Leo E. Anderson ...... J .G.W.
Edward H. Sie ms.............. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G . S.
Elber+ W. Oavir .............G.L.

195~

Phil N. Myers................. G.M.
McCloud Lodge No. 430
Born, Ja nuary 12, 1897
Joe L. Sh ell.................. D.G.M.
Alfred ~. Breslauer......S.G.W.
Guy 8. Mize ................ J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ ...... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G .S.
Elbert W. Oavis................G.l.

1959
Joe L Shell................ _ .. G.M.
San Dle.;io No. 35
Born February 18, 1892
Alfred F. Breslauer...- .D.G .M.
Guy B. Miu ._..._ .....S.G.W.
Ira W. Cobum............J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems........ ......G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .................G.S.
Elbert W. Devis............... G.L.

1960
Alfred F. Breslaue r ......... G.M.
Starr King No. 344
Born August 26, 1898
Guy B. Mize................ 0 .6.M.
Ira W. Coburn .. .......... S.G.W.
Elmer W. Hea ld .........J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ............ G.T.
Edwa rd H. Siems.............. G.S.
Dona ld G. Campbell ........ G.L.

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1H

HS

UST OF INSPE CTOR S

1961
Guy B. Miz•----····· -····-··-G. M.
Unity No. 3'8
Born Ap ril 23, 1701

Ira W. Coburn ..........D. G. M.
Elmer W. Heald ____ G. W.
Theodore Mariam ___J . G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ._______G . T.
Edward H. Siems. ........- .G. S.
Donald G . Campbell ... .G. L.

s.

1962
Ira W. C oburn................ G.M .
Doric No. 21 6
Born Ja n. 2&, 19()4

Elmer W . Heald ........_ D.G.M.
Th eodore Meriam........ S.G.W .
Myron E. Smith..... __ ...J .G .W.
Arthur M. Warren.·-·····-··G.T.
Edwa rd H. Siems............._G.S.
Dona ld G. CampbelL. ......G .L.

1963
Elmer W. Heald ............ G.M.
El Cen tro No. 384

Born Jen. 7, 1885
Theodore Mariam _.... D.G.M.
Myron E. Smith ····-····S.G .W.
Lau rence E. Dayton ....J .G .W .
Arthur M. Warren ···-·····G.T.
Edward H. Siems --····-···G.S.
Donald G . C ampbell ......G .l.

1964
Theodora Mariam .......... G.M.
Chico No. 111
Born Ap ril 18, 1910

Myron E. Smith ........- .. D.G.M .
Laure nce E. Dayton ____ S.G .W.
John F. Porter..............J .G .W .
Paul A. Pflueg er.... ·-·-··-··G.T.
Edward H. Siems............ _G.S.
Donald G . Campbell. ....... G.L.

196S
Myro n E. Smith................G.M.
Univ e rsity N o . 394
Born Dec. 2, 170&

Laurence E. Dayton .... D.G.M.
J ohn F. Porte r.........- ...S.G .W.
Eug ene S. Hopp.....___J .G .W .
Paul A. Pflueger................ G.T.
Edward H. Siems... ........... G.S.
Harold N. Richard s_ ____ G.L.

1966
La urence E. Dayton........ G.M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born Nov. 28, 1900

John F. Porter....---····D.G .M.
Euge ne S. Ho pp ..........S.G .W .
Ro be rt A. Crigler........J .G.W.
Paul A. Pfl ue ger............... -G.T.
Ed ward H. Siems--......... G.S.
Harold N. Richards.......... G.l.

lrupector •

Date of Com mission

District

..424
Clarenc e L. Fraser.............................. ......Decemb er , 1927 ............... ...............
346
............
...............
1932._
,
·······July
·······-······
······-·······
·-············
..
Millar
.
Niles 0
8
··········.41
·-··-········
......
1934
15,
er
Septemb
....
...............
.......
e
Hargrav
R.
Herbert
..416
Samuel Dollar ............... .............................December, 1935............... ...............
.......... ·-············-·······104
George S. Wa rd ....................... -..................J anuary 1, 1937
................. 306
Guido de Ghe tal di... .............................. - ..... Oct ob er, 1938...............
..560
...............
....•.........
1944
26,
January
.......
...............
...............
Clark
E.
Frederic
..426
...............
...............
1945
6,
March
............
...............
...............
J am es B. Lawson
392
.......
........
...............
1945
27,
rch
········.Ma
Arc.h Balc.hin. ........ - -·················-··········
............... ..322
Edward C. Lohmey er........................ Septemb er 27, 1945 ............... ...............
..301
Alexand er Duncan. .....................................October 9, 1945 ................................544
Roy T. Kiele ....................................................April 22, 1948...............
_................... 112
Elmer Glen Van Tassell.. ................. _Sept emb er 11 , 1948 ............-..............
......108
Reginal d Reynolds ............... ............_....Novemb er 5, 1948........... ...............
.. 586
John A. Owen ..................................................May 16, 1949...............-................. 324
Earl Caldwel l ........... ................................J anu ary 16, 1950.............. .............. 570
El vin C. Drake ...............- ........-········-·········Apri l 14. 1950_ ...............
....614
T'ed R. S iPms .... ··············· ··············-··· ·······- ... May 8. 1950 ........... - ...............
............... ..524
F rank W. Raddatz.............................. ..Novemb er 24, 1950..............................
..332
J oscph Myron Ruggier o... -................ Dccemb er 21, 1950 ...............
376
.....
...............
_
..........
1951
26,
anuary
J
..
...............
..............
Annand
Anrtre L .
500
....
...............
...........
1952
31,
March
....
...............
...............
idge
Wilfred W. P artr
...... .......................... 502
Lynn A. Black rnun ..... ............................ .....March 31, 1952
..208
Ed ward F arley ..................................................May 12, 1952............... ...............
........644
Harry H . Aiman.............·-···-··-··- ······- ··---.Mar eh 2, 1953......._...............
..217
Ray Earl Burdg···············-····-···-···········Sept ember 5, 1953..............................
1953........................... _...328
J ames E. Finley········-···-·········-······-··..···Octob er 10,
......350
E. Lloyd Hanson .......................................... January 1, 1954... ........ ...............
............... ..622
J ohn H. F erguson ........................................January 1, 1954...............
....402
Claiborn Schonho ff..................................... .March 12, 1954........... - ...............
.................. ·-···········550
Ray Smith. ............... ............... ...............Decemb er 15, 1954
..427
Alva A. Daniells... '.............._.....................January 13, 1955.............................. 367
............
...............
195!5...14,
······July
···············
·-······-····
..........
Will.
Edward C.
............................... 542
Frank Le roy SutlH! .............................. ........ August 9, 1955_...............
............... .. 432
1955
3,
October
...
...............
...............
...............
Moore
E.
Carl
........318
...............
.......
1955
29,
October
..............
...............
...........
Hinds
Ralph M.
..431
...............
...............
1956
6,
ry
Janua
..........
...............
.
Shugart
William Waters
..388
Harold F . Trafton..........................................April 24, 1956..............................
629
··-··-··-···
·-······-··..
1956
20,
-.May
···
A. Bird Cross .......·- ··- ··········-·-··-···········
.................411
Daniel Kleiman ···············-·········-...................July 16, 1956...............
.................365
E. Ross Baylis ................·-······-··-··············-···July 25, 1956...............·······-······
··- 625
30, 1956..·-··-··F loyd 0 . Mason ................•.........·-··-··-···- ·-··.July 15,
1956... - ........................... 607
Rew ell E. Carlton......................................August
20, 1956..·- ··- ··-··---······--·605
Kenneth Dowell ·-··-··-···-··--·- - ······.Aug mt 11,
1956..·-······-······-·······- ·-206
Wayne A. Dahling............... ......- .......September
333
Ulysses George Patropu los .......- ...........J ,a nuary l, 1957.......... ·-··-....···············
- ..........548
George W. P erkins......·-············ -··-·······J anuary 16, 1957...............
9, 1957...... ·- ······-··- ···········30 0
Sidney A. Webst er.............................. ......._...May
..637
Lew is Hugh Field................... _.....................Ma y 15, 1957..............................
639
··-···········
·-············
..
1957
15,
······.May
·-·-··-······
............
McLees
Scott
Winfield
............- ...628
Riley L. Blurton ......................... - .................. .May 24, 1957...............
504
J ames E. Bacon_ ..................................... Decemb er 15, 1957........................... - ...
-110
---·-··-··..
1958
1,
ry
···Janua
·-··-·-··-··-··-··-·
...
n
Bryceso
Albert A.
·- ······- ··- ··-·······334
Charles L. Foster........·-··················-······. January 1, 1959......
l, 1959......·-···-·-··- - ·······342
Carlton H. Rothblw n......... -.. --···-·-········Janua ry 23,
1959 .......- .......................109
Arthur L. Hugh es.............. ·-··- ···············January
1959...................- ...........361
9,
bruary
········-Fe
Alfred J ohnson ···-·········· ····-········340
Daniel D. Rowland a ....................................- ..Aprll 6, 1959.. ·-··················-·····.

446

PROCEEDING S OF THE
ln .~pectors

Daleo/ Commission.

t

w ir

E

v!·Ti· .
Ch

w·Ft

le

Inspector.,

Diltrict

Percy W. Lindt. ...............................................June 4, 1959................................ 106
~lmher E._ Ross..................................................June 8, 1959............................- ..366
r t ur Lmsk ........................................December 1 1959
554
i~au1is T~omas S_hirley ......................Deccmber i'. 1959::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::596
w·'t{ an m. He1dner ........................ Deccmber 15, 1959 ................................ 530
R \ i~m Robus~h ............ ............... ..... December 15, 1959 ................................ 582
C~ Pl P . P.wtndge.............................. December 15, 1959................................ 319
ar es J. entz........................ ..........December 15 ' 1959............................... 626
AlfrdAP
T ~
. enrose ......................................January 1, 1960.................................224
Cau RerRG. Hamma ..................................J anuary 1, 1960 ................................ 226
W~l1· · Bamsey...................................... February 26, 1960 ................................ 362
ottorff
E i 1iam
J
W lk .......................................... April 22 ' 1960.... ........................... .578
~d ~kesB
er....................... .................April 22, 1960................................621
L e i{1~ h~ t~ ................................................ May 3, 1960................................ 385
Ree . u~ e1ster....................................August 20, 1960 ................................ 390
Gay H. ~ame_. ...L.. ti ................... ........ September 20, 1960................................ 508
L eorgc i:fnms o er................................October 4, 1960........................ ........ 606
HarJI t. Has~er ...........................................January 1, 1961.. .............................. 356
L er er H. hobson ....................................J anuary 1, 1961.......................... ...... 348
B~nzaM · S aw ................... .................... January 1, 1961.. ................. ............. 638
Fr on eyer, Jr....................... ................ J anuary l. 1!)61................................ 552
AraniwEGStevens ......................................January 10, 1961 ................................ 510
wYl~
. Robertson .............................. January 18, 1961.. .............................. 540
H l iamRE. Marshall... ........................ .....Janu ary 27, 1961.. .............................. 212
A 013ce . La;Fortune .......... ................ February l~ , 1961... .............................216
W oydEC~hl!"·····:········ ..... .................February lo, 1961................................21 9
J ~ynk Ii h1 1ppi...................................... March 29, 1961................................ 120
nd
r:r, Jr ............................... ................... June 1, 1961................................ 308
J ~ ~rft oward Nicol... .. ................ September 22, 1961................................ 226
A~b
~ ~a1:penter ......................September 28, 1961................................430
M eql D Chir k 1ll... ....................... .........January 1, 1962 ................................ 304
R errh M · W 0f;··········································J anuai·y 1, 1962....................... .........352
Ra Pald E e b .... ........................ .... ........ J anuary 1, 1962 ......... .......................
358
Monk E SJ~es ................................ ........January 1, 1962 ......... ............ ........... 512
Allr d j c ~ck....................... ...............January 1, 1962................................538
L1 rd v' Na':'1h ....................... ................January 1, 1962 ........................ ........ 556
E 0Y. H. gm~~ ................................. ....... January 1, 1962 ................................ 558
~msh· lk~
ardt... ........ .......................January 1, 1962....... ............ ............ .566
1Tr;:m
~ m K ........................................January 1, 1962....................... .........568
R bmtsE · l\'.(c 1mson ............................J anuary 1, }!)62....................... .........572
Jo er D. Cnst ..................................... ..... J a nuary I, 1962 ................................ 588
~mes
. ~elso....................... .................January 1, 1962 ....... ........................ .592
S ayn e ~- ates ................ ........................January 1, 1962..................... ...........618
1 onn................. ........................ .....J anuary 13, 1962................................215
w\l~am ~o;ell Hurd ...................... .........March 14, 1962 .............................. ..406
daH · oster......................... ............... March 15, 1962 ........................ ........382
p a Laord~m ........................... ... .....................April 5, 1962.............................. ..420
Lau 1
n
TL rner.. ..................... ................April 5, 1962 ................................421
cfd.~eEce . ·
l? ~b..............................December 18, 1962................................532
J Y
. Smc1~ 11 ... .. ............ ... ................ .... J a nuary 1, 1963........................ ........ 211
Bo s ~ph W. Wright........... ........... ............... J anuary 1, 1963 ................................ 307
Her lam CF von Kon sky ........... .............J anuary 1, 1963................................ 355
Rabe Jo~ ;;nch ........................ ..............J anuary 1, 1963................................337
1 ontgomery ........... ................J anuary 1, 1963................................338
Ro e L p
H~ Y
. eterson ......................... ...............January 1, 1963 ................................ 522
0 d~~ <fiordon................................J anuary 1, 1963 ................................ 609
Dira~ D
C~nz:
. itc ens ................................February 26, 1963................................ 228
es JH.S M~~ll1ster....... ........................March 29, 1963 ................................ 384
L 1 on d ·D m1t , Jr.............. ...........................June 4, 1963................................ 394
S~onar
. Babcock ....................... ... September 1, 1963................................ 620
imon F. Bolger ..................................September 18, 1963 ................................ 640

GR AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

447

Dale of Commissinn

DiMrirt

George F. Harrison..................................October 18, 1963 ................................ 526
Donald J. Shoemaker ..............................October 18, 1963 ................................584
R alJmond C. Reeder................................ October 18, 1963....................... ........ n46
Wi liam D. Padgctte ............................ December 27, 1963................................ 608
William Whitfield Eilers....................... ..Januar y 1, 1964................................ 374
Ste phen J. Collins ............... .. .................. January 13, 1964................................ 536
Robert A. Simon .............. . ...................January 13, 1964................................ 562
Theodore A . Daley...........
. ..........February 16, 1964 ................................222
Ernest M. Newton ........... .... .... ........ February 17, 1964................................ 642
James J . Hartley...... ................ .... ....... February 26, 1964................................ 220
Jacob Andrew Feth ............ .........................March 4, 1964.................. ......... ..... 214
Sheldon E. Morris ................................. ....... March 26, 1964.......... .. . .................204
Alfred LeRoy Hayes........ ........ ..............March 26, 1964 ........................ ........ 210
Robert H. Burrows............... ... ...................March 26, 1964................ ............... 354
Shelby F. Passley............. ....... .........................May 2, 1964............. ...... ...........422
J ames Harvey Weller ...... ..... .... .....................May 15, 1964........ ...................... 612
Orval F. Carpenter ........................................June 17, 1964....................... ........ 316
Kenneth B. Conklin .......................................July 28, 1964.......... ...... ....... .....634
James E. Wellet.. ....................... ....... ...... November 1, 1964 ........................ .... .... 534
Fred F. Elliott... ...... .............................. November 1, 1964 .................. .... .... ..... 594
Robert W. Doan.................. ............. ..... November 5, 1964................. ....... ..574
William A. Fishback....... .... ..............November 5, 1964..........
.. ...... 576
Daniel M. Cameron.......... ...
.. .... .December 14, 1964........
.218
John Burszan , Jr.... ...........
. .......January 1, 1965........ ............... . .364
William W. Dickson, Jr..... . .. ... ........ J a nua ry 11, 1965........
.516
James B. Smith.................. . . ...........J anuary 25, 1965........
.116
Donald T. Wright........... ...
.. .......January 26, 1965......
..602
Charles K. Scherlle........ .... . . ...........February 4, 1965.....
.564
Jules Des Forges.................... ...................March 1, 1965......
. ..546
J oseph Shelborne Ba bb... ... .. .................April 20, 1965.......
...114
John Duane Williams ........................ .......... April 20, 1965....... .
. . ... 603
Roland E. Soracco ....................... .....................May 4, 1965........ . . ... .. ....... 404
Donald Kenneth Baldwin ...... ...................... June 19, 1965.........
. ... 117
R~y . L. Payne.......................................... ........ J une 19, 1965........
..118
William H. Reed" ............................................ June 28, 1965.......... . ....... ...... 372
Earl Clifton Lowe....................... ................... July 12, 1965.........
. .. .... 610
James William Belford ....... .....................August 27, 1965..........
.... ...... 636
Hu gh Olen Pope, J r ............................... .... August 27, 1965...... ......
.... 506
Wa lter H. Wayman......
.. ....September 13, 1965........
. ........... 635
Leroy G. ~onnelly... . ..
...... September 20, 1965........
...... . ....... 630
Jack R. Vickers......... . ..
. ... September 20, 1965.......
. ....... 518
Richard Kay Miller .... .
... ....... October 22, 1965.........
. ... .. 632
Verd on E. Hixson... ..
...... November 13, 1965......
.. ... 601
Ha rold B. Weed........... . ..... .. ....... N"ovemher 20, 1965.........
. ....... ...... 227
Thoms W. S. Wu..................
. ..... December 6, 1965.............. ........ ....336
Harold D. Seeskin ..................................December 6, 1965.......... .............. ........344
Frank A. Valentine.................. .............December 6, 1965 ................. .......... ..... 302
Robert A. Klinger.................... ...............January 4, 1966..... ...................... ..330
Donald Maltby ............ ..... . ......... .........January 7, 1966.......... ............. .........520
Raymond D. Morgan .......... .............. .......January 7, 1966...................... ....... .412
Edward A. Weirick ....................................January 7, 1966.................... ........... 580
Leo S. Brenneman................................February 21, 1966................................432
Hillard Merton Reeves ................................March 4, 1966................. ..... .........320
Manuel Jacobs ..............................................March 4, 1966........................ ........410
Arlie R. Fleming........................ ...................March 4, 1966............... ................. 369
Charles F. Chapman...... ...... .......... .........April 14, 1966................................528
Jean Fred Aeschlimann.............................April 22, 1966................................378
Stanley L. Channon. .................................... .June 21, 1966 ................................616

..

ii8
Inspectors

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Dote of Commission

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Distr~t

John F. Roberts ..............................................July 25, 1966................................ 368
Alfred A. Dowers........................................ August 3, 1966................................590
Kenneth Lawrence Morris......................August 30, 1966............................... .428
Corne lius Kernan ..............................September 29, 1966................................310
Clayton R. Heinz........................................ October 3, 1966................................ 624
Robert Alfred Smallman..........................October 6, 1966................................314
Leo B . Mark..... - .........................................October 8, 1966................................370

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
R•,ogreizu ,,,J ;,, p,..,~,,,J R•1'ilion1 tvtlh th•
G,.MHI LoJt• of CJifOt",,;,,

Argentina:
Carlos Wilson. Grand Sectv..
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28>: Buenos Aires. Argentin11
Austria:
Erwin Fernau, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12, Vienna 1, Austria
Belgium:

Grand Secretary,
265 Rue Royale, Brussels 3, B elgium.
Bollrla:
Bernardo Hurtado Navarro, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Brasll:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Actt
Joaqulm Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of J'orPign Relation.,
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
A. Napoleao Figueiredo, Grand Secty. of Foreign Re lations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
Grand Lodge of Parana
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 1363, Curitiha. Parana, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Pia.u i
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaul, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Brasiliano deSouza, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 247, Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Calxa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State or Guanabara
.
.
Roy Sergio Lopes de Carvalho, Grand Secre tary Foreign R~lahons ,
Rua Mariz e Barros 945, Rio de Janeiro 8, Guanabara, Brazil, S. A
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Ary Silva Antunes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
.
Av Brigadeiro Luis Antonio 1195, Apt. 72, Sao Paulo, Brazil. S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

449

450

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Kurt Max Hauser, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of the State of Mato Grosso
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 254, Campo Grande, Mato Grosso, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty..
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil
Canada1

AlbertaEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 -12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British ColumblaJ. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver 2, B. C.
Canada-(Provi nce of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Drawer 217, Hamilton 2, Ontario.
ManitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.
New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, Saint John, New Brunswick.
Nova ScottaHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.
P. 0. Box 1122, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.,
P. 0 . Box 337, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
Quebe~
J. Mel. Marshall, Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal 25, Quebec.
Saskatchewan T. M. Spencer, Grand Secty.,
1930 Lorne St., Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chfle1

Ernesto Silva-Roman, Grand Secty.,
Cwiilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
Grand Secty., Lott H. T. Wei
P. 0. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China
Colombia:

Gran Logia de Colombia,
Ignacio Ramirez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Carlos Rincon C., Grand Chancellor-Fore ign Relations,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-75, Cali, Colombia, S.A.

National Grand Lodge of Colombia
Ricardo Steffens, Grand Secty.,
Calle 66 No. 62-45, Barranquilla, Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena
Grand Secty.,
·
A
Apartado Postal No. 19-69, Cartagena, Colombia, S. .
Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
"Cuba:
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeAl!red Nyvang. Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dominican Republic:
Salvador G. Arnemann, Grand Secty.,
.
Apartado 865, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Ecuador:
V. H. Rodriquez Roditi, Grand S~cty .,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
El Sal•ador (Cu1catlan):
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
Sa Avenida Sur No. 126, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England:
James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.
Freemasons Hall, Great Queen St., London, England.
Finland:

Martti V. Mustakallio, Gra':ld ~ecty ...
Kasarmikatu 16D, Helsinki 13, Fmland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
S. J. L. Humbert, Grand S~cty.,
.
.
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neu1lly-sur-Sem e, Paris. France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodges
Friedrich Heller, Grand Secty.,
Emser Str. 12-13, 1 Berlin 31, Germany

Greece:
A.G. Maratos, Grand Secty.,
39, Ypsilantou St., Athens 140, Greece.
Guatemala:
Lauro A. Rivera, Grand Secty.._
Apartado 34, Guatemala City, C. A.

451

452

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Hondur H:
Edgardo Pineda Pascua, Grand Secty. and Chancel lor,
Apartad o 336, Tegucig alpa, D. C., Hondura s, C. A.
Iceland:
Otto B. Amar, Grand Secty.,
Borgart un t, (Box 44) Reykjav ik, Iceland.
India:
P. N. Sundara m, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 681, New Delhi 1, India.
lreland:
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemas ons Hall, Dublin 2, Ireland.
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Joseph Bar-Ner , Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Te l-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Umberto Genova, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustini ani, 5, Rome.
Japan
Carl T. Nakamu ra, Grand Seely.,
No. 13-1, Shiba, Sakae-C ho, Minato- Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Luxemb ourg:
Leon Hamus, Grand Secty.,
Case Postale No. 260, Luxemb ourg-ville, Luxemb ourg.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodie of Mexico
Reginal d E. Dobson, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o Postal No. 1986, Mexico 1, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja Californ ia
Ismael Garcia Salazar, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o Postal 155, Tijuana , Baja Calilorn ia.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos "
Jose A. Rios F., Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 171, Chihuah ua. Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leo n
Mario G. Zavala, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 309, Monterr ey, Nuevo Leon, Mexic-n
Grand Lodee of the Paci.fie
Inocenci o Higuera Verdugo , Grand Seely.,
Apartad o 20, Guayrna s, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamauli pas
Armand Garcia Pena, Grand Secty.
F. A. de Olmos No. 101 Nte. Altos, Tampico , Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lod1e Unida Mexican s
Marcial Fernand ez Vazquez , Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 56, Veracru z, Ver., Mex.
G rand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Oscar Muzquiz Martine z, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o Postal 10, Mexico 1, D. F.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

Netherla ndst
Grootoo sten der Nederla nden (the Grand East of the Netherla nds),
Dr. P. J . vanLoo, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluwele n Burgwa l, The Hague.
New South Walfft
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
R. H . Burley, Grand Secty.,
279 Castlere agh St ., Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zealand :
F. G. Norther n, Grand Secty.,
P. 0 . Box 6439, Welling ton C. 2, New Zealand .
Nicarag ua:
Carlos H. Muniz, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 102, Managu a, Republi c of Nicarag ua.
Norway :
Rolf Nerem, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Voldgat e 19, Oslo 1, Norway .

Panama s
Juan E. Urriola, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 84, Panama , Republi c of Panama .
Penta
Victor Raul Iparragu irre, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippi nes:
Esteban Munarri z, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelin o, Manila, P . I.
Puerto Rico1
Juan L. Matos-C intron. Grand Secty., .
P.O. Box 8385, Santurce , Puerto Rico.
Queensl and:
W. P. Walker, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K . G. P. 0 .. Brisbane , Australi a.
Scolland :
Alexand er F . Buchan. Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinbur gh, 2, Scotland .
Souther n Africa:
Grand Secretar y,
.
P. 0. Box 3431, Cape Town, So. Africa.
South Australi a:
F . J. Ellen. Grand Secty..
.
Box 19, Rundle St P . 0., Adelaid e, So. Austra lia.

Sweden :
Sven Svedin, Grand Secty .,
Frimura reorden. Blasieho lmsgata n 6, Stockho lm, Swt>dPn
Swilanl and:
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Humber t Vettova glia, Grand Secty.,
.
11 Chemin Champ- Rond, Lausann e, Switzer land.
Tasman ia:
H. A. Wilkinso n, Grand Secty.,
.
44 Harring ton St., Hobart, Tasmaru a.

453

45i

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Turkey:
Nafiz Ekemen, Grand Secty.,
25 Nuruziya Sokak, Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey.
Venezuela:
(Rep. of Venezue1a)
Francisco Escobar Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodie
C. W. ~avi.s, Grai1d Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
Weatem Australia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Western Australia.

•Recognized by Grand Lodge of California prior to the Castro regime.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

455

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES
A
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Ped.r o.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), H awthorne.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisnl (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
American River (795), Folsom

Amity-Seal Rock (370),
San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Gardena.
Ashland (798), San Lorenzo.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Bp}dwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Behnont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5). Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Boron (822). Boron.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Oakland.
Buc-keye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia ( 486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Callayomi (282), M iddletown.
Camellia (805), Temple City.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.

Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge,
Fresno
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (410) Berkeley

456

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Chaleau Thierry (569), Castro Valley. Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Chico (111), Chico.
Concord ( 117), Sacramento.
Chino Valley (427) , Chino.
Conejo Valley (807) , Thousand Oaks.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Confid ence (203), Castroville.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Citro) (656), Brea.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
C laiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Clairemont Mesa (799), San Diego.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Clarem ont (436), Claremont.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Clarenc<' F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Covelo (231), Covelo.
Cla ude H . Morrison (747),
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Chula Vista.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clay (l 01), Dutch Flat.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Clear L ake (183), Lower Lake.
Cresce.n ta Valley (652), La Cres centa.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crocker (454), Da ly City.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crockett (139), Sa n 1'' rancisco.
Coalinf?a (387), Coalinga.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Coasts1de (762), Paciftca.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Cupertino (5 I Ol. Cuper tino.
Comp ass (590), Pomona.
Curtis 040) , Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471 ), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Durie (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Rancho (759), Rico Rivera
East Bay (489), Orinda.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Belt (391 ), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (583). Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore .
East San Diego (561), Eas t San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Whittler (776), Whittier.
Emmanuel CH 8), Biggs.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Enterprise ( 70), Yuba City.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (59 1), Escalon.
Eel R iver (147), Fortuna.
Estcro (719), Cayucos.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (1 6), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Eve ning Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
El k Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
E xeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Pointa (779) , Long Beach.

457

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Florence (649) , Waln u t Park.
F ont ana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
F'orhestown. (50), Forbestown.
F or est Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Fr ancis Drake (376), South San
Fr ancisco.

Francis K. Shattuck (57 1), El Cerrito.
Frank S. Land (819), Los Angeles.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497).l.. Oakland.
Fresno (247), .nesno.
Friendship (210), San J ose.
Fruit vale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339). Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Ga rden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanzli (492), Los Angeles.
Gateway (821), Seaside.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
G lassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden Gate Speranza (30),
San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358) , Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino
Golden Wes t (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141 ), Kn ights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), San Fernando.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Great Lights (818), Sunnyvale.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596). South Gate.

H

E

Fairfax (556) , Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629) , Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), F allbrook.
Far W est (673), San Francisco

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ha milton (751), Novato.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hillcres t (573), Orinda.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Harbor (502) Richmond.
Hills Ferry (236), N ewman.
Hard ing (584). Los Angeles.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harm ony (164), Sier ra City.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawaiian (21 ), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Holtv ille (425), Holtville.
Haw thorne (647), Hawthorne.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hemet (6 15), Hemel
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope ( 234), Beckwourlh.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hornitos (98), Horni tos.
Henry Morse Stephens (541 ), Berkeley.H oward ( 37), Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco.
He rmosa (557), Manhattan Beach.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach.
High land (748), Highland.

I
Ulinoistown (51), Colfax.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
lmpc.rlal (390), Imperial.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Ione (80), Ione.
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest. Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.

458

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

ALP HAB ETI CAL LIST OF LOD GES -Co

ntin ued

J

Jam es A. Fos hay (641) ,
John Mars hall (636) , Beve rly Hills .
Play a del Rey.
Jame s A. Garf ield (566) , Los Ange les. John P. Jarm an (669) , San Jose.
Jopp a (508) , San J oaqu in.
Jame s H. K ew (766) , Ingle wood .
Jame s Madi son (572), Play a del Rey. Jord an (654) , Waln ut Park .
Josia h W. Rolle r (761) , Palo Alto.
Jane sville (232) , Janes ville .
Jubi lee (604), Sant a Ana.
Jewe l (374) , San Fran cisco .
Justi ce (549) , San Fran cisco.
John D. Spre ckels (657) , San Dieg o.
Kaua i (589) , Lihu e, Haw aii.
Kaw eah (665) , Woo dlake .
Keit h (187) , Gilro y.
Kerm an (420), Kerm an.
K eystone (161) . Milto n.
Kilau ea (330) , Hilo, Haw aii.

K
K~g Davi d's (209) , San Luis
Obis po.
Krng Solo mon' s Seap ort (260)
San Francisco .
'
Kit Cars on ( 734) , Sacr amen to.
Kool a u (801) , Kane ohe, Haw aii.

L

La Brea (650), Los Ange les.
Lem on Grov e (736), Lem on Grov e.
La Cana da (739) , La Cres centa .
le Prog rcs de l'Oce anie (371) ,
La Cum bre (642) , Sant a Barb arn.
Hono lulu, Haw aii.
La P'aye t te (126) , Seba stopo l.
Lexi ngton (104) , El Mon te
Lagu na Beac h (672) , Lagu na Beac h. L!be
ral Arts (677) , West Los Ange les.
La Habr a (659) , La Habr a.
L1he rtas (466) , Bake rsfiel d.
L:i Jolla (518) , La Jolla .
Libe rty (299) , Sant a Clara .
Lake Chab ot (770) , Castr o Valle y.
Linc oln (470) , San Fran cisco .
Lake shore (551) , Oakl and.
Lindsay (416) , Lind say.
Lake side (760), El Cajo n.
Live Oak (61), Oakl and.
Lake Taho e (707) , Bijou .
Livin gston (658) , Livin gston .
L akew ood {728) , Bellf lowe r.
Lodi (256), Lodi .
Lam anda P ark (627), Pasa dena .
Lom ita (644) , Lom ita.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa .
Lom poc (262) , Lomp oc.
La Mira da (778) . Buen a Park .
Long Beac h (327) , Long Beac h.
Lanc aster (437), Lanc aster .
Lore nzo (709) , San Lore nzo.
Land mark (253), Espa rto.
Los Alam itos (809) , Seal Beac h
La Parfa ite Unio n (17), San Fran cisco L
os Altos (712) , Palo Alto.
L a Puen te (446) , La Puen te.
Los Ange les (42), Los Ange les.
Larc hmo nt (614) , Los Ange les.
Los Bano s (312) , Los Bano s.
Las Palm as (366), Fresn o.
Los Ceni tos (674), Long Beac h.
Lass en (149}, Susa nvill e.
Los Gato s (292) . Los Gato s.
Laur el (245) . Willo ws.
Loya lton (359) , Loya lton.
Law ndal e (753), Haw thorn e.
Loya lty (529) , Los Ange les.
Leba non (495) , San Fran cisco.
Luther Burb ank (752) , Sant a Rosa.
Lela nd Stan ford (784), Chic o.
Lynw ood (600) , Lynw ood.
Macc abee (823) , R osem ead.
Mad era (280) , Mad era.
Madi soi; (23), Gras s Valle y.
Magn olia (242) , Sant a Barb ara.
Magn olia Park (715) , Burb ank.
Malt a (661) , Los Ange les.
Man ches ter (585) , Los Ange les.
Man hatta n (817) , Man hatta n Beach.
Mari copa (434), Mari copa .
Mari n (191) , San Rafa el.

459

GRAN D LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

M
Mari posa (24), Mari posa .
Ma rtinez (41), Mart inez.
Mar Vista (820) . New port Beac h.
Mau i (472), Maui , Kahu lui, Haw aii.
Maxw ell (288), Maxw ell.
May a (793), Los Ange les
McC loud (430) , Mccl oud.
McK inley (347), Rich mond.
Melr ose (602) , Holly wood .
Mend ocino (179), Mend ocino .

ALP HAB ETI CAL LIST OF LOD GES -Co

ntin ued

Menl o Park (651) , Menl o Park .
Mon terey (217) , Mon terey .
Men orah (623}, Los Ange les.
Mon te Vista (655}, L ong Beac h.
Merc ed (749>. Merc ed.
More no Valle y (804), Sunn ymea d
M eridian (667) , Glen dale.
Morg an Hill (463) , Morg an Hill
Metr opol itan (646) , Los Ange les.
Morn ingsi de Park (742) , Ingle woorl
Meu dell (695) , Bake rsfie ld.
Morn ing Star (68), Stock ton.
.
Mosa ic (218) , Live rmor e.
M~~way (426)! Taft.
.
M~htary Serv ice ~570), San Fran cisco Moth er Colo ny (750) , Anah eim.
. Mou ntain Shad e (18), Downievi lle.
Millb rae (792) , Millb rae.
Mou ntain View (194) ,
Mill Valle y (356) , Mill Valle y.
Mou ntain View .
Mine ral King (720) . Visal ia.
Mou nt Bald y (815) , Onta rio.
Miss ion (169) , San Fran cisco.
Mou nt Diab lo (448), Conc ord.
Miss ion Bay (771) . San Dieg o.
Mou nt Jack son (295) , Guer nevil le.
Mizp ah (378) , Los Ange les.
Mou nt Mori ah (44), San Fran cisco .
Mod esto (675) , Mod esto.
Mou nt Oliv e (506) , Los Ange les.
Moja ve (783) , Moja ve.
Mou nt Oso (460), Trac y.
Moli no (150) , Teha ma.
Mou nt Shas ta (281) , Ande rson.
Mon eta (405) , Los Ange les.
Mou nt Vern on (517) . San Fran cisco
Mon rovia (308}, Mon rovia .
Mt. Davi dson (481), San Fran cisco .
Mon tebel lo (451) , Mon tebel lo.
Mt. Wils on (794), Alta dena

N
Nato ma (64), Folso m.
Nava l (87), Valle jo.
Need les (326) , Need les.
Nept une (619), Long Beac h.
Neva da (13), N evad a City.
Nico laus (129) , Whe atlan d.
Norm al Heig hts (632}, San Dieg o.
Nort h Butt e (230), Grid ley.

Nort hern Calif ornia Rese arch
Lodg e, San Fran cisco.
Nort hern Ligh t (190) , Millv ille.
Nort h Holl ywoo d (542},
Nort h Holl ywoo d
Nort h Star (91), Fort Jone s.
Norw alk (315}, Norw alk.

0
Oakd ale (275) , Oakd ale.
Oak Grov e (215) , Alam eda.
Oakl and (188), Oakl and.
Oak Plain s (789), Sacr amen to.
Oakw ood (743}, La Cres centa .
Oasi s of Mara (735),
Twe ntyn ine Palm s.
Occi denta l (22), San Fran cisco.
Ocea n Park (369}, Sant a Mon ica.
Ocea nside (381) , Ocea nside .
Oild ale (688) Bake rsfie ld.
1
Ojai (663), OJai.
Old West (813), New hall.

Olive Bran ch (269) , Tula re.
Olive t (205), Corn ing.
Onta rio (301) , Onta rio.
Ophi r (33), Murp hys.
Oppo rtuni ty (740), H awth orne.
Oran ge Grov e (293) , Oran ge.
Orie ntal (144) , San Fran cisco.
Orin da (704), Orin da.
Orla nd (265}. Orla nd.
Oros i (383), Oros i.
Orov ille (103) , Orov ille.
Oxna rd (341) , Oxna rd.

p
Pacif tc (136), San Fran cisco .
Pacif ic Grov e (331). Pacif ic Grov e.
Paja ro (110), Wats onvil le.
Pale stine (351), Los Ange les.
Palis ades (637) , Sant a Mon ica.
Palm dale (769) , Palm dale.
Palm s (512}, Los Ange les.
Palm Sprin gs (693), Palm Sprin gs.

Palo Alto (346). Palo Alto.
Palo s Verd es (3 89). Long Beac h.
Para mou nt (785), Holly dale.
Park (449) , San Fran cisco .
Park Boul evar d (568)-h Oakl and.
Parn assus (388), San rranc isco.
Pasa dena (272), Pasa dena .
Paso Robl es (286) , Paso Robl es.

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462)( San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598J,
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
PeJTis (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plaza de Los Angeles (814),
Los Angeles.

Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), Sacramento
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700) , Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254). Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rim of the World (711), Twin Peaks.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208). Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank •
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Saint Helena (93). St. Helena.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
San Antonio (694), Bell.
San Lorenzo Valley (718)
San Benito (211), H ollister.
Boulder Creek
'
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. San Marino (685), San Marino.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Mateo (226) San Mateo.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
San Miguel (285). San Miguel.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
San Dieguito (775), Cardiff-by-theSea. San Pedro (332), San P edro.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Simeon (196) , Cambria.
San Francisco-Victory (360),
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Francisco.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sa nta Maria (580), Ramona.

Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Sa nta Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Scepter (808), West Sacramento.
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawaii
Seafaring (708), Newport Beach.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594) , Long Beach.
Sierra (788), Oakhurst.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach,
Silverado (782), Napa.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415)1 Hollywood.
Silveyville (201), D1~oi:i.
Simi Valley (806), S1m1 .
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford.

Sojourner (607), Duarte.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
Sotoyome (123), liealdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.
Southern California Research
Lodge , Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563) , Hawthorne.
South Pasadena (367),
Sou th Pasadena,
South San Francisco (212), Daly City.
South West (283), National City.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522) , Monterey Park.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S . W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
·
Tehachapi (313), T ehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temescnl (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple. City.
Te xas (46) , San Juan BautISta.
The Gabi Ian (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621) , Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triad (812), Montebello.
Triangle (548), Ve nice.Trinity (27). Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolwnne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731) , Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey .
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Torrance.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.

461

Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.

462

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

ALPH ABET ICAL LIST OF LODG ES-Co ntinue d
Verdug o Hills (727), Glenda le.
Veritas -Jonath an (545),
San Francisco.
Vermo nt Square (515), Inglew ood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victori a Palms (8 10), Riversi de.

Victorv ille (634), Victorv ille.
Visalia (128), Visalia .
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvi us (145), Bloomf ield.
Volcan o (56), Volcano.

w
Waikik i (774), Honolu lu, Hawaii .
Warren G. Hardin g (579),
Sacram ento
Wasco (583), Wasro.
Washin gton (20), Sacram ento.
Wayfar er (717), Whittie r.
We lcome (255), Lemoor e.
West Adams (565), Los Angele s.
Westch ester (703), Playa del Rey.
West Covina (758), Baldwi n Park.
Wester n Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angele s.
West Lake (392), Los Angele s.
West Los Angele s (373),
Los Angeles.
W estmins ter (787), Seal Beach.
Westwo od. (501), Westwo od.

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittie r (323), Whittie r.
William B. Ogden (8 16), Hollywood.
William D. Stephe ns (698),
Los Angele s.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angele s.
Willits (365), Willits.

Willow Glen (676), San J ose.
Wilmin gton (198), Wilmin gton.
Wilshir e (445), Los Angeles .
Winned umah (287), Bishop.
Woodb ridge (131), Woodb ridge.
Woodla nd (156), Woodla nd.
Woodla nd Hills (8ll), Canoga Park.
Woodst ock (491), Alamed a.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oaklan d.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), Walnut Park

Yosemi te (99), Mereed.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaip a (726), Yucaip a.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z
Zenith (768), Van Nuya.

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Procee dings of other Grand
lodge s have appea red quarte rly in the "Calif ornia Freem ason," copies of which have been sent
to each Grand Lodge. This progra m will be continued .
The "Calif ornia Freem ason" is issued quarte rly
and each copy carries additional reviews. Hence ,
they do not appea r in these Procee dings.

463

464

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

465

B

INDEX FOR 1966
A
Additions and Replacements Reserve
Audit .................................................................................................................... 354
Advance Remission of Dues
Grand Master's Recommendation.................................................................. 42
Legislation .. ......... ........ .......... ......... ........... .......... ........ ........ .. .......... .. .......... ....... 49
Affiliation Fees Tabulated................................................................·-··················· 414
Alphabetical List of Lodges..............................................·-··································· 455

AmeiI~;,~e~ ~YB~~dSecretary (Exhibit B).................................................. 75

Approved by Committee.................................................................................. 76
Anniversaries of Lodges..........·-··································-········································· 58
Annual Communication Date
Emergent Resolution Presented...........................·-··············-······················· 295
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 295
Annual Election ........................................................................................................ 306
Annual Returns
Audit .................................................................................................................... 321

~~~%~~fu~~~~~d·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
4

Appe ndix
Ge ner al ................................................................................................................ 381
Special ·······························································-·········································· ..... 309
Application Fees Tabulated. ................................................................................... 414
Appointme nts
Assistant Grand Lecturer.............................................................................. 42, 91
For Year 1966-67 ........................ ........................................................................ 306
For Communication ..........................................................................................
8
Inspectoral ...... ....... ........................... ................ ..... .......................................... ... 41
Grand Master's Recommendation..... ..................................................
39
Trustees for Masonic Homes.................... ..................................................... 307
Trustees for Memorial Temple ........................... .. ....................................... .. 307
Committees and Constitutional Boards........................................................ 382
Appointments-Committees
Grand Master's Recommendation.................................................................. 39
Reports of Committees...................................................................................... 49
Appropriations, Suppleme ntal
R eported .............................................................................................................. 6 3
Approved ............................................................................................................ 296
Audited ..................................................................................................317, 318, 31 9
Aprons for P ast Grand Officers
Res olution Presented ...................................................................................... 243
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 244
Atkin son Trust Fund..........................................................................................329, 339
Attendance
List ed (Regis tration and Mileage Payments) .............................................. 390
Reported ..... ... ........... ............................ ............ .. ......................... ......... .. ......... .... 204
Audit of Accounts (C.M.C. Sec. 194)
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 219
L egisl ation .......................................................................................................... 220
Audits
1966 Returns ...................................................................................................... 321
Grand Lod ge ...................................................................................................... 310
Masonic Hom es .................................................................................................. 323
l\'le mori al Te mple .............................................................................................. 361

Bequests-Masonic H om es Endowm ent Fund.................................................... 102
Biography , Myron Smith......................... .. ........... ............. ........................... . .... .. ..
1
Board of Control
Report of ...................... ...................... ........ .... ................................................. ... 132
Members L isted ................................................................................................ 388
Boards of Relief.... ........................... ............ .......... .. ................................................. .. 132
B oards of Relief-Hospital Medic al P lan
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 287
Legislation ........................... .............. ...... ... .. ......... ......................... ..... ........ ..... 288
Boron Lodge U.D.
Instituted ... ............................ .................... ................. .................................... 46, 54
Charter Author ized ............................ .................... ....... ............................... ... 141
Brigham Sch olars hip Fund Audit... ............................ ................................ .. ...329, 332
Burt Trust Fund ............................................................ ...................................... 329, 33 8
Budget
Appropriations, 1966-67 .................................................................................. 300
By-Law s
Amendments Submitted ................................................................................ 75
Report of Committee............................................. ................. ....... ................. 76

c
California Freemason
Budget Projection ···················-·································································176, 296
Editorial Staff .................................................................................................... 174
Expense ............ ................. ...................... .. .................................... ................... 297
F inancial Report e nding June 30, 1966 .. ... ............ ....................................... 31 3
Gra nd Secretary's Comm e nts... ........... ............. ................ ........ .. ............ ......... 72
Per Capita ...... ............................ .... ..... .... ........... ....... .................................. ....... 305
Publication Board, Report. of... ................ _............................................ ....... 176
California Masonic Code
Report of Spe ci<!l Com m it tee on Definition
of Com m ittee Responsibilities and Code Review.............................. 208
California Masonic Memorial Tem p le
Audit ..... ...................................... .............................................................. ......... .. 361
Honor Districts .................................................................................................. 135
Merit Roll ............................. .......... ..................................................................... 135

~fif:::sg~~dur.p~~t~~r-~-~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::136, ~6~

P icture Mor tga ge Burning...... ... ........ ..................... ........................................ 215
R emaining Debt ................................................................................................ 218
R eport of Manager ..................... ........ ............. .................................................. 137
Trus tee s Appoin ted .......................................................................................... 307
T rus tees' Terms ................................................................................................ 134
Trustees' Repor t .......................... ............................. .......... ...................... ......... 134
California Masonic Memorial Temple Per Capita (C.M .C. Sec. 283)
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 218
Legislation .............................. ....................................... ........................... .... ..... 219
Calling Up Procedures (Ga vels used listed at start of each session)
Candidate Educat ion , Grand L ecturer's Re port....... ....... .................................. 93
Cemeteries (Mason ic), Report of Committee ...... ........ ........ ......... .. ........... .......... 186
Centenn ials .......... ....................................... ............................................................... 58
Certificate of Recognition-Can didates C oaches
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 241
Legisla tion ........................................... ............................. .................................. 241
Certificate of Recognition-Long Service
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 239
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 240
Certification ................................................................................................................
3

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

466

Chan ges of Meet ing Place
.................................................... 67, 76
Repo rt by Gran d Secre tary ... ...................
......... ........................... ........ ......... 76
.........
Repo rt of Comm ittee on By-L aws..
................................................ 140
.........
.........
Repo rt of Comm ittee on Char ters
Char ters

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!8
:::::::::
:::::::
:::::::
:.~~~-~~-~~~::
o~...Enter
~~and
~~~
rve
tainm ent Rese
Chris tmas
::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~· ~~~
~~;;.ib~-iio;;5··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
ify Gran d Mast er's

Clari fy J?i;.finition of "Ecticts" and Spec
as "Edic ts"
Dec1s1ons Prop erly Adop ted by Gran d Lodg e
··········································· 236
·········
··········
······--Reso lution Prese nted ····-····
··································· 238
·········
·········
·········
Legis lation ····················-······-········
Clubh ouses , Repo rts on

: : : : : : : : : : : : : : }~!
: : : : : :ittee
·: : : : :Comm
:::::::.ition
:::::::::
::::::.::
:~i.:.:::
~~~~:
~
:
~;:
~~fa
~:~{
Cod~
Defin
on
ittee
Comm
ial
Spec
w
Code Revie
(See

Resp onsib ilities and Code Revie w)
e.......... ............................................. ..... 202
8olum bia Temp le, Repo rt of Com mitte
.. 145
................... .......... ............................
on
ittee
Comm
of
rt
omm ercia lism, Repo nts
intme
Appo
Com mitte e

:::::::::: :::::::::::::·-: ::: 3:i
:::::::::
:::::::::
: :::::::::
ff~ ~~~~r~~~~~~~:::::··:: :::::::::::::::-:::=::::::
Susp ensio n for

Comm ittee on Delin quen t Mem bers (See
of Dues)
Non- Paym ent of Dues and Adva nce Remi ssion
Com mitte e on Publi c Scho ols-I ncrea se Size .................................................... 255
r;s9lu ti_on Prese nted ....................................
256

Commi1~; ~~~o~· (s~~-R~p~~t~--~! ·c~.;;;;;ii"i~~f ·· ······ ····.....

··· ··········· ········· ··· ·-

Com mitte e to Com bat Com muni sm 1
······-··········· -···· 250
Presented·············-·-····-···········································
ts9lu ti_on
······················ 252
1 1
·········
·········
·········
·········
Cond i ti~1:i ~~ ~~;~~cy·································-·····
....... ............... . ... .. .... .................. 48
Con~li'd~~i:~s;t~~~~ments........... .. ..... ..........
......... .................................... 68
Repo rt of Gran d Secre tary.. ... ............................
.................................... .. 14l
.........
.........
..........
ters
Char
on
ed
Con!~~~t ~c:d~~ti~~
················································-······-····-·-······· 455
414
~pha~etillally ····································
··································-·······························
·-·······
~-····--;,:~
?se~~
Const~f~co
62
Gran d Mast er's Procl amat ion
:::::::: 17 0
::::::::::
:::::::::
:::::::::
:::::::::
:::::::::
:::::::::
::::::::::
......
.........
ittee
... 53
Cons~rfu~f; o~f j_~mges....
.... ...................................................... ............................
n
... 387
..........
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
Cons tituti onal Boar ds ..................
Contri bu tions
....358, 377
Rese rve.......... ....................................
ihd.is tmas and Ente rtain ment
......................... 111, 113, 118
Sn ~wment Fund .......................................................
···-········································································· 376
········-·········
l Reser vesd Upon
pec1a
es
Lodg
Levie
ions
ribut
Cont
·····················-······················· ························ 218
·········
·········
nted
Prese
llti.on
f:s9

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 21g
~~o~~·::::::::::::onies
Copyri=~st
ersto ne Cerem

Corn
.................................... ...•..•. 53
Spec ial Comm unica tions ....................................
e
mitte
Com
ence
spond
Corre
72
iforn ia Freem ason")........................
~rand Secre tary's Com ment s ("Cal..........
................... ....... 174
.........
.........
.........
..........
.........
.........
.........
..........
R ep~rt of
......... ........................... ..... 463
ev1ew of Proce eding s Othe r Gran d Lodges.....

467

Covi na Hom e
........................................................... 100
Repo rt of Supe rinte nden t. ...................
......... ............................................... 96
.........
.........
.........
Repo rt of Trustees...........
···· 374
·····-····--·····-·····································329,
355
d ········· ·······-· ··················Resid ents Liste
.................. .................. ......... .................
Covi na Rese rve Auctit..................Audi
358
329,
..
..........
..........
.........
.........
.........
t...
rve
Covi na Ente rtain ment Rese
376
........
.........
..........
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
Spec ial Rese rve Cont ribut ions
Crea te-M ason ic Temp les Fund
·······················-···············-··········· 230
P resen ted ························--··········
Reso lution
..................................... ....................... 232
Legis lation ............................ ..................
......... ............................ .......... ....... 204
Cred entia ls, Repo rt of Com mitte e ..................

D
Deco to Hom e (Union City)
.......... .................................. ........ 98
Repo rt of Supe rinten dent. ...........................
.................. ........................... ... 95
..........
..........
.....
.........
.........
ees...
Trust
Repo rt of
......................................... 366
.........
.........
.........
.........
.
.........
.........
d
Liste
Resid ents
.............. .............. ... 329, 356
.....
.........
.
.........
..........
....
..........
...
Audit
rve
Decoto Rese
......... ............. 329, 358
.........
.........
.........
t...
Audi
rve
Rese
ent
tainm
Deco to Enter
........................... .... 377
..........
...
.........
.........
.........
ions
ribut
Cont
rve
Spec ial Rese
...................................................... 414
Degr ee Fees Tabu lated.. ......... ................... ..........
4
Degr ees Conf erred

:::::::::: :::::::::::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::: ::::: M
i~f%a~~P~~e~~~~:
ittees

Delin quent Dues Comm
.................................................... 42
Gran d Mast er's Reco mme ndati on..............
........................... ......................... 51
.........
.........
.........
Legis lation ...........................
DeM olay
59
......... .................. ................... ......... ....... 193
Gran d Mast er's Procl amat ion............
......
.........
..........
..........
..
......
.........
...
..........
........
Repo rt of Spec ial Comm ittee.
................... ..... ... ......... ............. 9
Devo tiona l Servi ce ...... ......... .......... .. ........ ................
Direc tors of Masonic Club house s .................. .......... ........................... .................. 389
Name s of ......... ............................
.................. ............................ ......... 206
Repo rt of Berk eley......... .................. ..........
......... ............. ................... .... 199
Repo rt of Los' Ange les .............. ........ ...................
ons
Dispe nsati
···········································-···..-····· 68
New Lodg es ···············-···················· ..·········
··..-········ ······-··· 74
····-····
··-······.........
·········..........
·········
······-··
eous ···························
. .......................... 74
Misc ellan
Appr oved .......................................... ............. .......
Displ ay Natio nal Embl em
........................................... 282
Reso lution Prese nted •............................................
·························-··············· 283
·················
·········
···························
Legis lation -········
ts
37
Disti nguis hed Gues
............................ ......... .................. .......
Addr essed Gran d Lodg e....... .... .........
........................36, 204
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
..........
.........
d
Liste
e
Atten danc
Distr ibutio n Comm ittee
....................................... 8
Appo intme nt ...............................................................
··-································· 144
·········
·········
Repo rt of ·············-·····················-··················
Dues
75
···························································
.. 70
to By-L aws..·-···············
Ame ndme nts
...............................................................
Tabu lation by Amo unts. ..................
414
......
.........
..........
..................
Tabu lation by Lodg es.................. ...........................
Dues Remi ssion s
..................................................... 42
Gran d Mast er's Reco mme ndati on.............
............................. ................... . 144
.........
..........
.........
.........
Refe rred to Comm ittee

E
nizat ion, Apri l 18 A.L. 5850........ 438
Elect ed Officers Gran d Lodg e Since Orga
....................................................... 306
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
ers
Elect ion of Offic

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

469

PROCE EDINGS OF T H E

468

Eligibi lity-F uneral Servic e

f!~?Ifa~i~~ ~~-~~-~:~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::: ~~g

Emplo yment Bureaus
...................................... 133
Board of Control Recom menda tions ........................
.............. ................. 329
............
............
....
..........
Audit.
nds
u
F
t
Trus
and
ment
Endow
Endow ment Board
.. _............................. 37
Grand Mas te r's Com ment- Ch ainnan. ........................
............................ 387
............
............
............
............
............
Board
of
sition
Compo
......................... 102
....
............
.........
............
............
............
............
............
of
Report
)
Month
ment
Endow
Homes
ic
Mason
(See
Month
Endow ment
................................... 329, 358
~~~~~!~nment Reserve AudiL ............ ........................

Exp~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ii

+

............ ....... 46
Gra nd Master 's Comm ents........... ........................ ........................
....................... .. 47
Grand Master 's Recom menda tion.........................................
52
······· ....... ............ ...........
co~~~ffCi~t'io~s ··· .. ······ ············
Exti~ccttf~db~s Grici~a~g
············ ······· ········ ························ ········· 432
g
g

•

F
Fee s fo r Degree s
...................
Amend ments to By-La ws............ ................................................

fl~,l~!ibt~£~:~~

.

75

'~-:ii

... ....................... ..... 329, 335

F~~e\g n~:a;~i~~~ it. ...................... ............ ........ ............

···········5449
························
Ci··········· ············
id~~~~~tu·-~·
~~di~e ~;uirt
Fran~~- ta~dce-F~m
...4 , 53
............
............
............
............
.....
t
y
Cop
ily

Funer al Servic
................ 242
R esoluti on P resente d .................................... ............ ........................
·········· 243
············
············
··-········
············
Legisla tion ················································

G
...................... 141
gatez ayu~g U_.D., Cha rter Autho rized ............ ........................
8
.......... .........
............
..
............
............
n.........
icatio
-ommun
~
_~
G!~:r~l A.e end[;_n
381
............ ....
....................... ............
141
pp
..........
............
....
G eorge Wash ington Mason ic Nation al Memo rial ' T.h..e............
................................. ··
G ift Bible- Mini mum Size
··············· 268
Resolu tion Presen ted ·······················-················································
269
···········
············
············
············
············
e·········
·s·en;ic
af
n
.
oti'c;
n,-·n~;
~f
........ 9
............
G rai!'de~~:~~
............
............
............
............
Gra nd Lectur er

0

grn~~J.f~f::i~~~f'~--~:~: : .:::. :::::::: :.: j

............ ... 36 • 204
G~:~d Masf: ; c~:~rs~~t'ki·i~on .EiS ......... ............ ................ ............
tated Meetin gs
G ra nd Master -Limi ted Auth or ity to Chang e Time of S

. : : : : : : : : : ::::: : :: : : : : : : ::: : : : :::::: : : : : : :: : : : : : ~~~

~~r;raw: ~~~-~~-~~~

................. ........... .......... ... ...... 176
Grand Oratio n .............. ... ............ ...................... ..........
.......................................... 67
............
............
............
of........
Report
y,
ar
Grand Secret
........ ........ .................... . 63
............
............
........
...
............
of
t
Repor
rer,
Grand Treasu
............ .................... 296
............
..
............
............
ents
Comm
mittee
Finance Com
ts..................... . 65
semen
Disbur
and
ts
Receip
of
y
mmar
ge-Su
Grand Lod
on
Grieva nces, Comm ittee
........................ .. 80
Repor t of ....................................................................................
........................ 78
............
............
............
C)........
it
{Exhib
ted
Trial Record s Lis

H
H arwell, F rank, Jr.
...................................... 295
Comm ents-Commit tee on Financ e ........................
........................ ......... ... 15
....
............
............
...........
ogy.....
Necrol
on
ittee
Comm
........................... 27
............
......
............
.........
............
............
............
............
Eulogy
·······-············· 26
············
Phot ograph ········································································
H ea ring Aids
............................ 265
Resolu tion P resente d ............................................................
............ .......... 266
............
............
............
............
............
............
Legisla tion ............
H omes Statist ics
........... ..................327, 359
Operat ing Reven ue and Expen se ............... ...... ..........
.. ................... .. 366, 374
............
............
...........
............
.......
............
Reside nts Listed
ndence
Indepe
of
ation
Declar
of
H onor Mason ic Signer s
........................................ 283
Resolu tion Presen ted ................................................
............ ............................ 284
....
............
..........
............
....
............
Withd rawn ............
..................... ...... 103, 118
............
.......
...
............
...........
nd)
Fu
H onor Roll (Endow ment
Relief
of
Hosp ital Medica l Plan- Boards
................ 287
Resolu tion Present ed ............................................................ ............
··--······ 288
············
············
············
············
············
············
·······-···
···-······
Legisla tion

I
I nspect oral Appoi ntme nts
............................. 41
Grand Master 's Com ments. .. .......... .......... ... ....... .................
... ........ .. ... ... ..... ..... 445
......
.
...
.
....
..
.
.
..
.
..
.
.
.
..
.........
.........
............
....
of........
Inspec tors, List
................... 308
............
............
............
............
........
.......
............
s
Installa t ion of Officer
......54, 68, 140
.......
............
............
.........
......
............
............
............
Institu tion of L odges
......... 217
............
......
............
............
............
............
ittee
Comm
Insura nce, Repor t of
147
............
............
............
.......
............
............
.......
of
t
Repor
Invest ment Committee,

J

.................................. 44, 58
Jurisd ictions Visited ................................................te............
items referre d
on
ly
separa
ted
{Repor
on
Jurisp rudenc e, Comm ittee
to comm ittee)

L
Lawler , Oscar
.................................... ..... 15
Comm ittee on Necrol ogy..... ....................................
........... ........ .. .... .. . 22
Eu logy ...................................... ......... ........ ... ......... ........ ............. ............
............ ..... . 21
Photog raph .................. ....... ............. ......... ... ........................
Legisla tion P roposed
Section 18 (Execu tive p owers)
·························································- ······· 235
P ropose d ············
Amendment............
........................ ... .................................... ....................... 235
Legisla tion
Section 70 (Regul ations)
················· 237
Amend ment Propos ed ···--··················- ····································.......... ....... 239
Legisla tion ......... .................................... ..... ......... .......... ............
Section 121 {Powe rs of Grand Master )
...... 235
Amend ment P roposed ........................................................................
··· 235
············
············
Legisl ation ···············································-······················

i70

GRAND LODGE OP CA LIFORNIA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

471

Section 134.1 (Powers, cont. Change of Time of Stated Meeting)
New Section Proposed .............................................................................. 235
Legislatio n ..................................................... ....... ................... ................. .. 235
Section 174 (Expense s of members )

Section 473 (Qualifica tions of voters and officers)

.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
..
Section 176 (Expense s of other officers)
Proposed ·······-········-···············································--·········· 246
Amendm ent
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 249
Section 192 (Standing Committe es)
Amendm ents Proposed ................................................................49, 246, 255
Legislatio n ...................................................................................... 50, 249, 256
Sec tion 194 (Audit of accounts)
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 219
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 220
Section 199 (Committee on Lodge Financing )
tmeldr:i ents Proposed ......................................................................221, 225
g1s a tion .................................................................................................. 225
Section 207 (The Committ ee on Nominati ons)

Section 511 (Moral and physical qualificat ions)
Amendm ent Proposed ........................................................................ 265, 266
Legislatio n ................ .................................................................... .............. 267
Section 512 (Sound discretion required)
Amendm ent Proposed ................................................... ..................... 265, 266
Legislatio n .................................................. ........................................... ..... 267
Section 513 (Saloon keepers and barkeepe rs ineligible )
Amendm ent Proposed ........................................................................ 222, 227
Legislatio n ···········-··········-···················..····-···--······································· 227
Section 515 (Jurisdict ion of Grand L<tdge)
Amendm ent Proposed ........................................................................222, 226
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 226
Section 515.1 (Complia nce with law of foreign jurisdicti ons)
New Section Proposed.................................. .................................. .... 222, 226
Legislatio n ..................................................................................... ............. 226
Section 515.2 (All members of organizat ions within . ..)
New Section Proposed..... ...................... ................. .......... .................. 222, 226
················································ 226
Legislatio n ···············-··················-·············
Section 541 (Objectio n before initiation )
Amendm ent Proposed ................................................... ..................... 222, 227
Legislatio n ········································-·-····················································· 227
Section 554 (Ritual)
Amendm ents Proposed ......................................................................268, 272
Legislatio n ............................................................................................ 269, 273
Section 577 (Remissio n of dues)
Grand Master's Recomme ndation.......................................................... 42
Legislatio n ···············································-················································· 51
Section 579 (Secretar y to send notice)
······························-· ·····-··· 273
Amendm ent Proposed ··································
Legislatio n .................................. ................................................................ 274
Section 683 (Conduct in violation of Masonic or moral law)
Amendm ents Proposed ..............................................................222, 227, 277
Legislatio n ............................................................................................227, 277
Section 769 (Publicat ions forbidden )
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 277
Legislatio n ......... ...... .................................. ................. ................................ 277
Section 781 (When may be presente d-Ordina nces Amendm ent)
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 238
Legislatio n .................................................................... .............................. 239
Section 782 (Vote Required -Ordinan ces Amendment)
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 277
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 279
Section 783 (When two-third s vote may carryOrdinanc es Amendm ent)
Amendm ent Proposed ......................................•....................................... 280
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 281
Annual Commun ication Date
Emergen t Resolutio n Presented ........... ................. .................................. 295
Legislatio n ................. ................. ................................................... ............. 295
Aprons for Past Grand Officers
Resolutio n Presented ................................................................................ 243
Legislatio n ................................................... ............................................... 244
Audit of Accounts (C.M.C. Sec. 194)
Resolutio n Presented .................................. .............................................. 219
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 220

~fs}~tioe;t ~~~~~-~~~

~~

0
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
! ~--~~~:.~~~::
f:~1~f(Contribu
tions levied upon Lodges)

Section 283
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 218
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 219
Section 323 (Transact ion of business)
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 235
Legislatio n ···········································-····················································· 235
Section 324 (Place of meeting)
t::i~ndr:ients Proposed ...................................................................... 221, 225
g1slation .................................................................................................. 225
Section 324.1 (A Masonic Lodge or organizat ion ... )
r:~ s~~tion Proposed........................................................................ 220, 224
gis 1 a 1on .................................................................... .............................. 225
Section 324.2 (A Masonic Lodge or organizat ion .. .)

f:;is1~ticJ~o~--~-~-~.:.~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==·l·, ~~~

Section 331 (Statewid e public schools welfare)
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 228
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 229
Section 334 (Adverti sing-pub lications )
Am~ndment Proposed ........................................................................222, 226
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 226
Section 343 (By-laws , cont.-Of Meetings of the Lodge)
Amendm ent Proposed .............................................................................. 235
Legislatio n .................................................................................................. 235
Section 348 (By-laws, cont.-Of the Treasure r)
t::i~ndr:ient Proposed .............................................................................. 256
gislation ···························-···································································· 257
Section 350 (By-laws, cont.-Of the Secretary )
.. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
fe11Jsl~tloe;t__::~~~-~-~~-~
cont.-Of Revealin g the Transacti ons

Section 363 (By-laws,
of the Lodge
Amendm ent Proposed ............................................................................... 276
Legislatio n ..........................._.................................................................... 277
Section 375 (Consolid ation of Lodges)
Am~}df!!ent Proposed .............................................................................. 258
Legis atJon ···················-······················--··--···--·····--····································· 259
Section 408 (No expendit ure whatsoe ver.,.)
Amendm ents Proposed ··--···············································-·········221, 222, 225
Legislatio n ·······························································-······--················225, 227

~i:i~~;t_:.~~~~-~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
t11Js1~ti;;t__~~~-~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 493 (Duties of Secretary )

472

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

California Masonic Memorial Temple Per Capita (C.M.C. Sec. 283)

f~~?~Iatffo1;, ~~~~~~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g
Certificate of Recognition-Candidates Coaches

f:~?llaVi~':i ~~.~~.~~~.:::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!~

Certificate of Recognition-Long Service

r:!~f~Iatfi~~ ~~~s~~t~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Clarify De finition of "Edicts" and Specify Grand Master's
Decisions Properly Adopted by Grand Lodge as "Edicts"

~;~f;Iatffo1;, ~~-~.s~.~-~~~..::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::···· ~~~
····
Committee on Public Schools-Increase Size
f:;?1fatfi~~ ~~-e.~~·n·t~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Committee to Combat Communism
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 250
Legislation .................................................................................................. 252
Create-Masonic Temples Fund

~;~?;!a~ki~ ~~·e·~~.~-~~~

~~g

..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Delinquent Dues Committees
Grand Master's Recommendation.......................................................... 42
Legislation ................................................................................................. 51
·
Display National Emblem

f;~f;Ia~i6~ ~~e·~-~-~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~
Eligibility-Funeral Service

r:;?lla\\~~ ~~~.~~~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Funeral Service-Family Copy
r:~?;fatffo~ ~~~.s~.~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!~
Gift Bible-Minimum Size
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 268
Legislation ........................... ............. ............................. ............................. 269
Grand Master-Limited Authority to Change Time
of Stated Meetings

r:;?~latfi6~ p-~~-~~-~-~~~

~i~

..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Hearing Aids
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 265
Legislation .................................................................................................. 266
Hospital Medical Plan-Boards of Relief

f:;f11a~~r:i ~~~-~~~~~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~

Lodge Consolidation-Clarify Procedure

r:;?;latffo1;, ~~~.~~-~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g
Lodge Discussions on Public School Candidates, Bonds Taxes

f~~f~Ia~i6~ ~~~-~-~-~~~~

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::':::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Lodge Fina ncial Reports-Dates Presented

~~g

r:;?~laYi6r;, ~~~~-~-~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Masonic Public School Scholarships

r-:;?;1a~i6~ p-~~~~-~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:
Master Mason's Emblem
r: s~llti_on Presented ................................................................................ 281
g1s at1on .................................................................................................. 282

473

Movable Jewels
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 271
Legislation ................................................................................................. . 271
Nominating Committee

r;~?I!a~~~ ~~.~.~~-~~~.. :::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::~::::::::::::::: ~!~

Notice to Delinquent Member
Resolution Presented ............................................................................... . 273
Legislation .................................................................................................. 273
Optional Funeral Service-Memorial
Resolution Presented······················-··································-··················· 274
Legislation ............................................... ................................................... 275
Place of Meeting Other Than a Lodge Hall-Where Liquors
May Be Served
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 290
Legislation ............................ ................................................................ ...... 226
Proposed Legislation Responsive to Direction of 1965
Annual Communication re Special Committee Report on
Laws Respecting Liquor
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 220
Legislation ....... ............................................... ........................................... 224
Publications Forbidden
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 275
Legislation .......................................... ........................................................ 276
Qualifications-Lodge Officers
Resolution Presented ·······················································-······················· 261
Legislation .................................................................................................. 261
Qualifications--Officers or Counselors of Youth Groups
Resolution Presented ···············································-······························· 263
Legislation ... .. ......................................... .................................................... 264
Suspensions N.P.D.
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 254
Legislation .. ................. .................... ... ................ ....................... ................. 254
Third Degree-Optional Provision
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 272
Legislation .................................................................................................. 272
Visual Aids ·
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 270
Legislation .. ............. ........................ .......... .......... ................................ ....... 270

VotR~;~~i~~ (~~!!~<;;~~2!............................................................................... 277

Legislation ................ ................................. ................................................. 278
Vote Required (C.M.C. 783)
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 279
Legislation .................................................................................................. 280
Library and Museum
Report of Board of Library Commissioners................................................ 189
List of Constituent Lodges...................................................................................... 414
Lodge Consolidation-Clarify Procedure
Resolution Presented ·······································································-··············· 258
Legislation ·······································-································································· 259
Lodge Discussions on Public School Candidates, Bonds, Taxes
Resolution Presented ···················-··································································· 228
Legislation ·················································································-··········-··········· 229
Lodge Financial Reports-Dates Presented
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 256
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 257
Lodge Financing, Report of Committee on .......................................................... 155
Lodges

~ll~~;~a~~sL~~-~ ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
4

Charters Authorized ........................................................................................ 140

474

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

Constitute d .......................................................................................................•.. 53
Extinct .......... ... ...... ............ ...... ......... ....... ..... ... ......... ......... .. .... .......... ................ ... 432
Instituted ................. .... ......... .......... ....................... ................................54, 68, 140
Numerical List ......... ......................................................................................... 414
L os Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles)
Luckenbac h Fund Audit. ..................................... ....................................... ....... 329, 331

M
Maccabee Lodge U.D., Instituted ............... ........................................................... 46, 54
Charter Authorized .. ....... ....................................... .............................. ............
Mar Vista Lodge No. 820, Constitute d ............................................................... .46,141
53
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley, Report of Trustees.......................................................................... 206
Los Angeles, Report of Trustees.................................................................... 199
Directors Listed .................... ........................................ .................................... 389
Masonic Education, Special Committee on
Grand Master's Directive................... .................. ....................................... ...... 185
Report of Committee...... ........... ......................... ............. ............ ............ .. ....... 184
Masonic Homes
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Balances ........................................ 325
Audit ............................................................ ........................................................ 323
List of Trustees.... .................. ....... ..................................................................... 388
Per Capita Survey.......... .... ................................................................. .............. 297
Report of Endowmen t Board.. .... .............................. :.................... ................. 102
Report of Superinten dent, Covina.................................................... .............. 100
Report of Superinten dent, Union City............................... ........................... 98
Report of Trustees. ............................. ..................... ........ ................................... 96
Trustees Reappointe d ................... ................................................................... 307
Masonic Homes Endowmen t Board and Fund

~~~~sts··· :::::::::::::::::·::: :::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~~: ii~

Contributi ons Through Lodges........................................................ 103, 111, 118
Honor Roll ................. ...... ..................................................................... ........ 103, 118
Members and Officers, 1965-66.................... ..... ............................................... 387
Memorials .................... . ....................................... ........................................ . 111, 114
Proclamati on of Grand Master............ .................... ........................................ 61
Report of Board ........................... .................... .............................. ..................... 102
Terms of Members ..................... ......................................................................... 110
Masonic Public School Scholarshi ps
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 284
Legislation ................. ................................. ...................... ........... ......... .. ........... 286
Master Masons' Attendanc e ............... ...... ....................... ...... .............. ......... .......... 204
Master Mason's Emblem
Resolution Presented ................... ..................................................................... 281
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 282
Meeting Place
Changes Listed by Grand Secretary ............................................................67, 76
Grand Lodge Action... ................ ....................... ......... .................... ........ ....... 76, 141
Members' Contributi ons by Lodges ... .. ............................................................ ..... 414
Membersh ip
Grand Secretary's Report...........................-................................................... 69
Tabulated by Lodges ........................................................................................ 414
Memorial Contributi ons ·······························-··························-·······················111, 114
Memorial Service
Devotiona l ..........................................................................................................
Necrology ..................................... .................... .... ......................... ... ................... 149
Grand Master's Comme nt..... .................... .................................................... ... 39
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memorial T emple)
Merit Roll (California Masonic Me morial Temple) ....................................... ... 135
Message of Grand Master................. ....................................... ................................ 38

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

Mileage Payments

475

~=~~f!t~~;~r;;;~~-n~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::: 390
205

Movable Jewels
Resolution Presented ....................................................................................... . 271
Legislation ......................................................................................................... . 271

N
Necrology, Report of Committee.................... ........................................................9, 14
New Lodges

gt~?!t~~1~~~~;:~:~:~::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : ::::!g~i~

Instituted .................................................................................................... 46, 54, 68
Nominatin g Committee
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 244
Legislation .......................... .................... ............................................................ 247
Notice to Delinquen t Member
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 273
Legislation ....................................... ................................................................... 273

0
Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointme nt of for 1966-67..............................................................................
Attendanc e from other Jurisdictio ns........... - ...........................................36, 306
204

fil~!t~l~~~~.~~i~~··· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ::!

Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles, Report of Comnnttee on............................ 209
Opening of ll 7th Ann~al Commu~ication................. .......................... ...... .. .......
7
Optional Funeral Serv1ce--M emonal .

r.:~?~latl~~ ~~-~~'.~~~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Optional Residence or Business Loca tion of Applicants

~~~~r~~n~~-~~~-~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~X

..
Oration by Grand Orator...................... ................................................................... 176

p
Past Grand Masters

~~ets:~rc:t i~~~~':{l~~i-C>n::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~
43

Visitors at Communic ation .................. .................... .................... ................ 36, 204
Pas t Masters and Wardens-Necrology Report................................................ 14, 32
Pay of Members

~=s~1!tf~n c~t;:;~~-n~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~

Per Capita
Payment by Lodges ................................................................................ .......... 414
Rate for fiscal year ending June, 1967.................... .................... .................. 305
Perine Endowmen t Fund Audit... ................................................................... 329, 333
Permanen t Endowmen t Fund............................... .................... .......................329, 330
Place of Meeting Other Than a L odge HallWhere Liquors May Be Served
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 290
Legislation ........................................... ................................................... .... 226
Place of Meeting-R escind Certain Liquor Restriction s

~i1~~~~n~~-~-~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::224, ~~~

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Place of Meeting-Permit Sale of Bottled Liquors
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 289
Withdrawn ....................................................................................................224, 290
Policy, Committee on (Reported separately on items
referred to Committee)
Proclamations
Constitution Observance ................................................................................ 62
DeMolay .............................................................................................................. 59
Masonic Homes Endowment Month.............................................................. 61
Public Schools Week. ......................................................................................... 60
Proposed Legislation Responsive to Direction of 1965
Annual Commurucation Re Special Committee Report
on Laws Respecting Liquor
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 220
Legislation ............................................. .......................... .......... ................. 224
Publications Forbidden
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 275
Legislation ........ .................... ............................................... .............................. 276
Information, Report of Committee on...................................................... 203
Public
Public &hools
Dedications ........................................................................................................ 54
Proclamation by Grand Master...................................................................... 60
Report of Committee.......................................................................................... 165

Q
Qualifications-Lodge Officers
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 261
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 261
Qualificatioins-Officers or Counselors of Youth Groups
Resolution Presented···········-·································· .. ·····-................................. 263
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 264

R
Receptions and Breakfasts Reported. ...... ............ ........... ....... ......... ......... ... .......... 54
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodge s
Recognized Jurisdictions .................. .............................................................. 449
Recommendations of Grand Master
Reported by Grand Master ....................................................40, 41, 42, 45, 46, 47
Reports of Committees.......................................... ...................... 144, 49, 50, 51, 52
Registration and Mileage Payments ........... .......... ............................ ..................... 390
Remission of Dues (See Advance R emission of Dues)
Reports of Committees
Board of Control... ........ .................................................................................... 132
By-Laws .............................................................................................................. 76
California Freemason Publication Board.................................................... 176
Cemeteries ···················································-···················································-· 186
Charters ·············································································································· 140
Code Commission ·················--·····································-··································· 173
Columbia Temple ···············-······-·········-····-·····-··············-·······--···············-··· 202
Commercialism .................................................................................................. 145
Constitution Observance ................................................................................ 170
Correspondence .................................................................................................. 174
Credentials ........................................................................................... -······-··-- 204
DeMolay .............................................................................................................. 193
Distribution .............................................................................................. ·-······· 144
Finance .......................... ........ ..... ... ..... ................................ .......... ....................... 295
George Washington National Memorial... ..................................................... 141
Grievances .......................................................................................................... 80
Ins urance ........... ............ ........ ..... ...... ..... .. .................................... ........... ....... ..... 217
Investment ....................................................................................- .................... 14.7

Jurisprudence (Reported separately on items referred to committee)

i77

ti~::~~~~:~~~-~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 155
189

206
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley ...................................................................................................... 199
Los Angeles ·······························································-·········-····················· 184
Masonic Education ·············································································-············· 102
Masonic Homes Endowment Board..............................................................
94
Masonic Homes Trustees .................................................................................. 134
Memorial Temple Trustees.............................................................................. 13
Necrology ..... ............. ........................................................ ....................... ........... 209
Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles ........... .............................. ......... .................. 205
Pay of Members ........................ ..............................................._. ......................... .
Policy and General Purposes (Reported separately on items
203
referred to committee)

: : :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::: : : :::::::: ~~~
~~~m~E~~ia:~:~:::::::::::::::
Ritual (Reported separately on items referred to committee)

194

162
··················································································::::::::::::::::::::::::
Sojourners
.
Taxation .................................................................................
0

RepG~~d c~~~l~n-Devotional Service.......................................................... 9g

Grand Lecturer .................................................................................................. 38
Grand Master ...................................................................................................... 158
Grand Orator ...................................................................................................... 67
Grand Secretary ................................................................................................ 63
Grand Treas urer ................................................................................................
204
Representatives of Lodges
Atte nda nce Reported·······································································-··············· 390
Roster of Attendance ............................................... .................. .. ............ ........ .
45
.
.
Research Lodges
Grand Master's Comments an~ Directive....................................................
46
Grand Master's Recommendati on ......... .............. ...... ............ ................... 43"i 455

~~~t~·or"<::o~i-tt~·~:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::' 3~~

Reserves for Special Purposes Audit............ ........... ....... ......... ....
354
Additions and Replacements ........... ............ ............................. ......... .... .......... . 358
5
Covina Entertainment Reserve ......... .............................................................
35
Covina Reserve ................................................................................................. . 358
5
Decoto Entertainment Reserve ..................... .................................................

ResiY:J~P~1~~~ x~~-f~::: : : : : : : : : : ::: : : : : : : ::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~~
35

Residents at Homes

374

Resolutions (Also see Legislation)

295

ij~y~~a ci"i;.;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::... 366

t7l~E:!n:::::::::::::::::·::::::::::~ici:::~~~:::~:~:~:.: ;~~;:i~~;:i~~;:~~ci;::~:~i::~:~:~;:;~~:J~:

Ritual Committee on (Reported separately on items r eferred
to' committee)
Roll Call ..................................................................................................................... .

7

s
Scholarship Fund Audit............................................................................................ 336
72
Secretaries Associations

Grand Secretary's Comments......................................................................... .

478

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

Secret ary to Send Notice
Resolu tion Presen ted ........................ ................................................
................ 273
Legisl ation ........................................................................
.................................. 273
Servin g Liquor s and Eligib ility of Barten ders
Resolu tion Presen ted ........................ ........................ ........................
................ 292
Withd rawn ................................................ ........................
............
Servin g Liquo rs-Ban quet or Social Rooms of Mason ic Templ................224. 292
es
Resolu tion Presen ted ........................................................................
................ 293
Withd rawn ................................................ ............
........................................224. 294
Servin g Liquor~ocial Gather ings When Meal Is Served
Resolu tion Presen ted ........................................................................
................ 293
Withd rawn ............ ............................................................
............................224. 293
Servin g Liquo rs-We ddings and Social Affairs in Mason
ic Templ es
Resolu tion
ted ············ ························-··············································-··· 292
Withd rawn Presen
........................ ............................................................................224.
292
Sessio ns of Comm unicati on
Monda y Mornin g ................................................ ........................
...................... 7
Monda y Aftern
························································································-·· 36
Tuesda y Morninoon
g ....................................
.................................... ...................... 102
Tuesd ay Aftern oon·········-·····-·-················-····································--···
Wednesday Mornin g ···········································-······-·······-·········· ····--·······-· 155
················· 202
Thursd ay Mornin g ····-·······----·····---·······--······--······
·································--···-····· 217
Thursd ay Aftern oon ··········-·······································---·····
············ ·······-······· 228
Thursd ay Evenin g ···············································-···············-········-·'····-··········· 250
Friday Mornin g ··················---····-·········-············
·········-························· ·····-········ 306
Friday Aftern oon ................................................
.............................................. 308
Smith, Myron E., Grand Master

~r0o;~;;~~h... :::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::~~~:-~~-~iec!
Appoi ntmen ts for Comm unicat ion..........................................
...................... 8
Appoi ntmen ts-Rec omme ndatio n ................................................
................ 39
Appoi ntmen ts-Insp
l ·············----······-·······················-··························· 41
Lodge s Consti tuted ectora
................................................
............................46, 53
Messag e ........... ................................................ ........................
............ ............................. 38
Procla mation s ........................ ........................................... .........
........................ 59
Recept ions and Miscel laneou s................................. ......... ............
................ 43, 54
Recom menda tions .................................... ..................... ........
.40, 41, 42, 45, 46, 47
Resear ch Lodges ..... .. .... ....... ..................... ............ .. .... .... ............
..... .................. 45
Specia l Cerem onies ........................ .......... ............ ...........................
................. 54
Specia l Comm unicati ons ...... ............ ........................
........................ .............. 53
Visitat ions to Other Jurisd ictions ....................................
............................44, 58
Sojour ners, Repor t of Comm ittee on..............................·-·--················-··········· 194
Specia l Appen dix ............................................................
.........................•................ 309
Specia l Cerem onies Report ed....... ................................................
........................... 54
Specia l Comm ittee on Defini tion of Comm ittee Respon sibiliti
es
and Code Review
Grand Master 's Comm ents................................................................
...... 40
Grand Master 's Recom menda tion.................
............................. 41
Action by Grand Lodge................................................
........................................ 50
Specia l Comm ittees ................................................ ........................
.......................... 385
Specia l Comm unicat ions Repor ted..........................................
.............................. 53
Standa rds of Propri ety
Resolu tion Presen ted ........................ ................................................
................ 291
Withd rawn ........................................................................
............................224, 291
Standi ng Comm ittees ·······························-·······································
······················ 382
Stated Meetin gs-Rel igious Conflic ts
Resolu tion Presen ted ·········-······-········-········-·································
Withd rawn ···········-··-···-································································ ·······-······· 229
············-·--·· 230
Studen ts' Loan Fund Audil ........................
........................- .............................329, 336

479

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPO RNIA

Sup~~di~~~asl ~~g~~~~~~~~---················ ············ ············ ············ ·············317, 318, 319

~l~~dT;e°a=~~eR~~~~r.:::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::_: :::::::::::: ::::::::::: ~g
2

Suspen sion for Non-P aymen t of Dues and Advan i;e Rem1ss
10n of Dues
Grand Master 's Comments and Recom menda tion.....
..................... ~
Action by Grand Lodge .................... ..................... ........................
............ ...................
Susp~~:~?~:i! ~~~~nted ........................................................................................
~~!
Legisl ation ............................................................ ........................
......................

T
Taxati on, Report of Com~ittee on........................ ........................
........................ 16~
Telegr ams, Sent _and Rece1ved ............. ....................................
..... ............ ........ 1ii 114
Testam entary Guts ........ ................
........................ ............................................

•

Thir~~~fu~i~~~~~~r!J'~~~~~~-~-~·· ························ ························ ·····-················· ~+~

Legisla tion ....---·-...... -······----····· ..-·····--...-----······--····---· ----------····-··
·········-···· ·-······-Title Page ............. ........................
.................................... ........................
............ .......

5

Triak~E.::e·e·· ~~-- ci~ie~-~r;<:e5.:Rep·o~i::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::: : :::::::::::::::::: ::: :::::::::::: :: ~~

:f

Truste es of Mason ic Homes

Tru'~ff ::~·: · · · ··

:. .•:.:.: . . :.·::· ·•· · ·•· · ·· :. . .•. m
94

u
Unfini shed Business for 1967
Expe:"-diture of Funds -Finan ce Comm ittee Study. ............
..................... 52
Heann g Aids ······-········· ····························· ········· ·· ········ ········· ········
Liquo r-Lodg es and Concor:dant Bodies ~rve ~r Consum ·············· ·· ···· 265
e at
Social Affairs in Establ ishmen ts Servin g Liquor ............
.................. 225
Qualif ication s-Lodg e Office rs ....................................
.................................. 261
Vote Requir ed (C.M.C . 782) ................................................
.............................. 279
Unfini shed Busine ss from 1965 and Previo us Years
67
i:i~~ir ~~r:iai~~~~~~~-~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 220
Per Capita Tax-C aliforn ia ~asonic Memo rial Temple ......
Specia l Comm ittee on Comrr uttee Struct ........................ ............ ........ 218
....................40, 50
Study on Audits of Grand Lodge Accou ntsure
................................................ .. 219
United Grand Lodge of Englan d
Grand Master's Recom menda tion.....................................................
............. 44
Report s of Comm ittees............ ...... . ............ .......................... ············
··············· 51

v
Vetera n Button s Presen ted-50 Year Button s......................
.............................. 85
Visitat ions to Other Jurisdi ctions ................................................
........................44, 58
Visual Aids
270
r.!~?~i!i~fo~ ~~-~-~~~-~~~
270

..::::::::::::::::::::·.·.: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

VoteR~~
~i:1fio~ ~~~~t~~2~·········--···· ······-············-···· ················································ 277
Legisl ation

....... ............ ......................................................... ....................... .......
278
Vote Requir ed (C.M.C. 783)
Resolu tion Presen ted ........................................................................
Legisl ation ............................................................ ........................ ................ 279
...................... 280

480

PROCEED INGS OP THE

w
Wadleig h Fund Audit............................................. ............... ..............................
329, 334
Whitsel l, Leon 0.
Comntit tee on Necrolog y..................................................................................
Eulogy ..... ............. ....................................... .............................. ........................... 15
30
Photogr aph ·······················-··········································-·····································
29

y
Youth Comntit tee
Resoluti on Presen ted ························-······························································
Withdra wn .......................................................................................................... 253
254

