EDWARD HENBY SIEMS
Grand Master
Brother Edward Henry Siems, the 83rd Grand Master of Masons
in California, was born at Buena Park in Oregon County, California,
on December 7th, 1903.
He received his elementary schooling at Centralia Grammar School
in Orange County, later going through Anaheim Union High School
in the same county. After spending a year at the University of Southern
California, he attended the University of California at Berkeley, graduating from the college of Commerce in 1927.
Brother Siems was married to Pauline Baker at Berkeley on April
27th, 1933. The couple reside in Berkeley and have one child, Fred A.
Siems, aged 13.
The business experience of Brother Siems has been in the financial
world. After four years in the stock and bond business at Los Angeles
and Long Beach, he went to Oakland with the Key System Transit
Lines in 1931, becoming a director of the company in 1934. Since 1937
he has been the Secretary-T:t"easurer of the company.
His civic activities and affiliations are many and varied. He is a
member of the Rotary Club and Knights of the Round Table, the
Commonwealth Club of San Francisco, the Pacific Railway Club and
the Athens Athletic Club, of which he is a director. He has been a
member of the Oakland Junior Chamber of Commerce, of which he
was a director, the Senior Chamber of Commerce and the United States
Chamber of Commerce. He has interested himself in the Cub Scouts
and other boys' work. As an active member of the First Presbyterian
Church of Berkeley, he has given of his abilities by serving on its Board
of Trustees.
He has been devoted to the Masonic fraternity. He was initiated
in Buena Park Lodge No. 357 on Sept. 12, 1928, passed to the degree .

EDWARD HENRY SIEMS
Grand Master

of Fellowcraft on December 20, 1928, and was raised on February 14,

1929. After moving to the East Bay, he dimitted to Plymouth Lodge
No. 560 of Oakland on April 4, 1933. He became the Master of that
lodge in December, 1940, serving as such through the year 1941. During
1942 he was president of the East Bay Masters' and Wardens' Association. From 1941 to 1946 he was a member and vice-president of the
board of directors of the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley. He was
commissioned Inspector of the 34th Masonic District on April 18, 1943,
and served in that capacity until his election to the office of Senior
Grand Warden on October 18, 1946. As Senior Grand Warden and
as Deputy Grand Master from 1946 to 1948 he was a member of the
trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, taking an active interest
in the affairs of the Homes at Decoto and Covina.
On October 15th, 1948, Brother Siems was elected and installed as
Grand Master.
As Grand Master he had the unusual pleasure of having his brother,
Ted R. Siems, serve as Grand Sword Bearer, and he had the further
privilege of raising another brother, Charles John Siems, to the Sublime
Degree.
Throughout his year as Grand Master, Brother "Ed," as he is
familiarly and affectionately known to the great host of Masons who
greeted him in numbers throughout the length and breadth of the jurisdiction, took frequent occasion to "talk shop," reporting in his forthright and practical manner on what was currently happening among the
Masonic Craft in California and elsewhere. His travels as Grand Master
took him a total distance of over 41.000 miles, equivalent to nearly two
trips around the full circumference of the globe.
No Grand Master has ever been more approachable and no Grand
Master has ever given more abundantly of his time and efforts for the
Fraternity. No Grand Master has ever elicited more willing cooperation
from his Masonic brethren. No Grand Master has ever been more
cordially received and accepted as one 'of the Masonic workmen.

~ranh ijnhgt nf C!taltfnrnia
I, LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of The M.'.W.'.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one-hundredth Annual
Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on Monday,
the 10th day of October, A: L. 5949, and ·terminated on Friday, the
14th day of October, A. L. 5949.

lfn WtBtimnny Dlf4trtnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of The M.'.W.'.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this thirty-first day of
October, in the year of Light,
five thousand nine hundred and
forty-nine.

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M... W. ·. GRAND LODGE
of

1Jirrr anh J\rrtptth :!lasnn:11
OP THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

lOOth ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Monday, October 10, A. D. 1949, A. L. 5949
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 14. A. D. 1949. A. L. 5949

ONE-HUNDREDTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One-hundredth Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, Van Ness Avenue and Oak Street,
San Francisco, on Monday, October 10, A. L. 5949, at 10:00 A. M.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:

OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LODGE

M. ·. W. ·.EDWARD H. SIEMS-------------------------·-·----··--··---·-·····-· Grand Master
R. ·. W. ·.ELLSWORTH MEYER--------------·-------------------Deputy Grand Master
R. ·. W. · .ARTH~R PAULSEN ____________________________________Senior Grand Warden

R:.W:.Loms C. DRAPEAU-----------------------------·------Junior Grand Warden
v.·.w.·.FRANCIS v. KEESLING, P.G.M. ________________________ Grand Treasurer
v.·.w.·.LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M. ________________________________ Grand Secretary

V. ·. W. ·.ARTHUR M. WARREN------------------------------------------Grand Lecturer
v:.REVEREND w. PAUL REAGOR ______________________________ Grand Chaplain
w:.MERVYN E. HANSHAW_______________________ Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.WALTER H. E. VoNKONSKY _____________ Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.OBED W. CARR------------------------------------Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.FRANK HARWELL, Ja .. _________________________ Assistant Grand Lecturer
w:.JosEPH R. KNOWLAND, SR----------------·--········=---------Gr.and Orator
w_ .. PAUL A. PFLUEGER __________________________ Assistant Grand Treasurer
W.'.HENRY D. 0LIPHANT _______________________ Assistant Grand Secretary
W. ·.GEORGE D. GAVIN ... -----·------------·------·-----------··-----Grand Marshal
W: .PHILIP N. MYERL------·--····--···-············---Grand Standard Bearer
W. ·.TED R. SIEMS ..............................................Grand Sword Bearer
W.'.CHARLES FORBES, Sa..................................... Grand Bible Bearer
W. ·.CLINTON T. 'DuFFY........•...........................Senior Grand Deacon
W.'.RAYMOND P. WAKEMAN---········-········----·---Junior Grand Deacon

8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES

w.;.MAX A. PLUMB........................................S~or Grand Steward
w.·.FRANK E. AHRENDT..................................Junlot Grand Steward
w.·.JoHN M. GOROON............................................Gtand Pursuivant
w.·.CHARLES E. AND~SON......................................Gtand Organist
w.·.ALVIN A. HoRWEGE................................................•.Grand Tiler
PAST GRAND MASTERS
M:.w:.OscAR LAwLER
M:.w:.FRANc1s v. KEESLING
M:.w:.WILLIAM RHoDES HERVEY
M:.w:.CHAs. ALBERT ADAMs
M:.W.".ARTHUR S. CRITES
M:.w:.GEoRGE L. JoNEs
M:.w:.WILLH. FiscHER
M.·.w.·.CHARLEs M. WoLLENBERG
M:.w:.JoHN STEWART Ross
M:.w:.RoBERT B. GAYLORD
M:.w:.JAMEs B. GisT
M:.w:.EARL WARREN
M.·.w.·.RoLLIEW. MILLER
M:.w:.LEON o. WHITSELL
M:.w:.WILLIAM B. OGDEN
M:.w:.LLoYD E. WILsoN
M:.w:.CLAUDE H. MoRRisoN
M:.W.".ARTHUR w. BROUILLET
M. '. W ... JOHN R. MOORE
M:.w:.CHESTER H. WARLOW

And 1597 officers and representatives from 571 Lodges and seven
Lodges under dispensation, and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
was opened in ample form, following which the Flag of Our Country
was received.

9

Masonry's Eternal Quest

.

Very Reverend W. PAUL REAGOR, Grand Chaplain
Impelled by a never satisfied restlessness man has ever been engaged in an eternal quest. It is not without signifkance that the very
genious of that quest has been incorporated within the framework of
the Masonic fraternity.
The truths and insights of masonry are taught by allegory and
symbol. At the very beginning this eternal quest is symbolized in the
query. "What do you seek?" At the opening of every meeting of a
lodge of free and accepted Masons this symbolism is further exemplified
in that beautiful ceremony wherein the substitute for the ancient
Master's word is brought from the west to the east. Then at the close
of the lodge it is again delivered from the east to the west, there to
remain deposited until called for at the opening of another session of
the lodge.
It is this search for the lost word, resting at the heart of masonry,
which is at once the source of its power in the lives of its members and
the secret of its continuing influence in society. Will you look with me
this morning in some of the directions toward which such a quest
takes us.
It is a quest which looks inward. Perhaps here is the primary·search
of man, that he might know and understand himself and through this
knowledge and understanding control and guide himself.
Any understanding insight into our own personalities and minds
reveals us as men and women of infinite capacities and possibilities. The
record of men who have "risen above themselves" is writ large upon the
pages of history. Great contributions have been made to the enduring
blessing of the race by men who have refused to be defeated by some
thunderbolt which had been hurled against them. All such achievements but illustrate the truth that more important than knowing himself
is the will to achieve this higher self.
The source of such a high determination arises not only within ourselves .but it is stimulated and encouraged by great acceptances and
ennobling fellowships.
It is at this point that we discover the secret of the hold that the
Masonic fraternity has upon the lives of men. "In whom do you put
your trust?" You know the answer. "What do you seek?" In darkness
you are seeking the light, and the light which you seek is that light
which will lead you not to more riches nor to more fame, but to a nobler
and more serviceable manhood. The obligation which you have just
taken binds you ever to seek those high ends in the fulfillment of your
own life.
In seeking such ends we do not travel alone. We share in a fellow-

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ship which cuts across all social boundaries and reaches around the
world as a company of men who are engaged in the same quest. In
such fellowship we are mutually strengthened and encouraged. For
we shall never find the answer to that quest in the here and the now.
Who of us will say that he has realized his best self, or will ever stand
upon the pinnacle of his fullest possibilities. In pressing on we gather
and give encouragement and purpose within the framework of this
high fellowship. For such a fellowship must look and reach outward. ,
The "good society" has been the goal of men from the beginning of
time. High and low, master and slave, the proud and the humble, men
in all stations of life and in all areas of their contemporary social structure have longed and prayed for the time to come when every man would
sit under his "own vine and fig tree" in peace and security.
Yet I do not need to recount for you the record of the conflicts and
wars which have been the scourge of the race during all the centuries
of recorded history. Even within our own generation we have passed
through a period of two world-shaking cataclysms which have left our
civilization so shattered that even now, three years after the shooting
has stopped, we find our world still trembling on the brink of total
destruction.
Moreover, as man has traveled down through the centuries his
record has been one of increasing conquest. At first he lived in a small
flat world not much larger than he could see beyond his limited horizons.
The sky was an upturned bowl and the stars were just beyond his reach.
The heat of the sun frightened him, while the darkness of the night
left him in terror. The visitations of the elements and the ravages of
plague and pestilence were indications of hostile forces before which
man stood in cowering dread.
Indeed man has traveled a long distance from those early beginnings.
For today he lives in an immeasurable, unlimited universe, his night .
time illumined by stars which have been traveling through space lo
these millions of years. He has harnessed the energy of the sun, defied
the pull of this planet to· fly through the air, has plummeted to the
depths of the sea, exploring its mysteries and bringing forth its riches.
He has tamed the wild beasts to do his bidding and exploited the vast
storehouse of the natural world to bring forth no one knows how many
products to add to his delight, satisfaction and supposed peace. He has
conquered disease to such an extent that within our generation man's
life expectancy has increased by a quarter of a century. He has even
cracked the atom and thus almost discovered the mystery of creativity.
Yet in spite of such a phenomenal record of achievement and socalled progress we are living in a world torn to shreds by ill will and
bitterness. fear and suspicion, and we are daily undone by fratricidal
strife. Illustrations range from the individual to the international, from
the stories of murders and crimes of violence one reads in almost every

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

issue of the daily newspapers to the international wars which have
periodically engulfed the peoples of the world.
The answer is surprisingly simple. It is more than a matter of
organization, either political or economic. "Not by might nor by power
but by my Spirit, saith the Lord of Hosts." It goes beyond military
defense or diplomatic maneuver. "They that take the sword shall perish
by the sword." Surely the answer is to be found in that utterance one
discovers first on the pages of the New Testament, but quoted there ·
from one of the prophets: "He made of one blood all the nations of the
earth to dwell together in unity.''
We share in a fraternity dedicated to that high purpose. It is a
fellowship world-wide in scope and reaching across most of the artificial
barriers which men have erected between themselves. It transcends
race and creed and within its framework one finds that spirit of equality
and unity which became the source of the inspiration of the Constitution of these United States. Here is one fact we dare never forget.
Often meeting in our own temples, small in members, we are tempted to
feel isolated and far removed from the maelstrom of the world's tumultuous affairs. Yet whenever we meet and no matter under what circumstances, in groups large or small, we need ever to recall that we are a
part o~ that world-wide fellowship, craftsmen dedicated to the building
of a world of amity and good-wil!. of peace and brotherhood. That
js of the very essence of the purpose of Divinity, for did not the Master
pray, "Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.''
However, in all of this I see a grave danger and implicit temptation.
There is always the tendency just to solely enjoy our own fellowship in
such splendid isolation, letting "the rest of the world go by.'' It is so
cozy to be brotherly just to those who share in our own intimate fellowship and to be a brother only to those to whom we have sworn fealty.
Now, to care for our own is certainly the heart of our obligation. But
we dare not stop there. If we would make any effective contribution
toward the building of "One World" we are obligated as Masons to
throw that spirit of brotherhood so singularly ours creatively up against
the tensions and fears existing today between men and nations. Who
knows but we may have been called for just such a day as this?
The lines of our quest reach in and out and also up. Upon your
entrance into a Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons to receive the
degree of Entered Apprentice you put your trust in God. In all of
our supplications we address Him as the "Great Architect of the
Universe" and we pay homage to Him as our "Supreme Grand Master.''
He is the Guide of all our days.
Here is man's oldest and deepest search. The psalmist gathered
together this deep search in words which are always new when he

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

sang, "As the hart pantenth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul
after Thee, 0 God." And it was Augustine centuries later who pointe~
out that the "soul is restless and undone until it finds its rest in Thee.
If this upward quest would be brought to some noble fruition our
belief must grow into faith and trust. It is one thing to have belief in
God. That is an intellectual acceptance of Him as indeed the Supreme
Architect of the Universe. That is an intellectual recognition of that
Divine Creativity which is the source of all things both animate and
inanimate in our universe. It is an acceptance of those moral laws
which undergirds all of man's social and individual life. B1:1t such belief
does not carry us far enough.
There is available for all of mankind that added increment of
strength, that plus element in living through which comes lig~t for
darkened hours, guidance for perplexing days, comfort for experiences
of sorrow, forgiveness in the depth of sin, and strength for every weakness. Such a discovery is made when we move belief up into trust.
It is like a swimmer who throws himself back upon the water to float
when he would rest from the ardors of swimming.
It is not too much to say that the noblest of all achievements arises
from such trust. The founding fathers of this land were moved by such
a trust. They knew they were being led by the Di~ine Pro~idence as
they sought to lay the foundation for this democratic republic. Ev~ry
step of the way was made only after supplication for that light which
comes only from above.
.
.
A few Sunday evenings ago in listening to Edward Arnold m his
"Mr. President" show, he told the story of John Quincy Adams. All the
way through that story this sense of trust was so pervasive that one
found oneself living through those stirring days again.
May I bring this :meditation to a close with a personal illustration.
During the war a friend came to me one day with the request that ~ t~l~
with the president of the company for which he worked. He was killing
himself. His associates were concerned about him but none of them felt
they could talk with him. This he wanted me to do.
After thinking it over, I finally went to see him one afternoon about
four o'clock. He had been in his office then since five that morning. I
suggested at the beginning that I had come at the request of the men
with whom he worked. They were concerned and felt that he was
·
working too hard.
But then I added that I wasn't going to counsel him to take it easy.
He couldn't for weren't we in a war? But I did want to remind him of
that added strength that was available for all of those who learned to
trust.
I had hardly finished before he started in, first apologizing for not
coming to church and then revealing some of the intimate secrets of his
life, the values around which he built that life and the joy that was his

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

13

in the confidence that only a Divine Hand could have guided him in
preparation for this very hour. We finally left together about seven.
I reported the next day that they did not need to worry for I knew he
would carry through.
Such is trust, and he who has learned that high fellowship has indeed
learned the secret of all noble and victorious living.

The Grand Secretary was directed to send telegrams of felicitation to the absent Past Grand Masters and to dispatch a special telegram of condolence to Past Grand Master James T. Fraser, the death
of his wife having been reported to Grand Lodge.

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER

among the members in every section of our jurisdiction from the western
most outpost lodge on the Island of Kauai to El Centro No. 384 on
the southern border, and to North East Lodge No. 266 at Fort Bidwell
in the northeast corner of this great State. Minor differences of opinion
which always happen when two or more people get together were
usually solved by some sound thinking brother whispering good
counsel in the ears of all parties. In Masonic lodges there is no substitute for common sense and Masonic understanding.
The lodges, as far as I have knowledge, are in a strong financial
condition. Many have high-lighted the Masonic year by freeing their
Temples of debt and burning their mortgages. Several applications
for new lodge buildings are now being processed by the Committee on
Lodge Financing. It was my pleasure to convene Grand Lodge in
special communications on five separate occasions for the. pur~s.e of
laying cornerstones for Masonic Temples and other public bmldmgs.
The dates and places were as follows:
Dec. 21, 1948-New Hall of Justice, San Bernardino
Apr. 16, 1949-Masonic Temple, Van Nuys
May 7, 1949-0akland Main Public Library, Oakland
May 28, 1949-Masonic Temple, San Gabriel
Aug. 6, 1949-Granada Masonic Temple, Alhambra
On January 29. 1949, Grand Lodge was convened for the
purpose of dedicating the new Beverly Hills Masonic Temple.

One year ago this Grand Lodge elected me to the highest office
at its command, and now I stand before you to render the final report
of my stewardship. In doing so, I welcome you, one and all, to this the
1OOth Annual Communication of The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of California.
As this week ends, it closes a year of intense activity. I have enjoyed
· every minute of it. It has been strenuous at times and to say that I have
appreciated the honor of becoming, by your sufferance, Grand Master
of this Great Jurisdiction, is a "masterpiece of understatement". How
successful this administration has been is left for you and time to judge.
I prayerfully submit for your thoughtful consideration this report
of the year's activity.
In entering on the new Masonic year, my successor will have under
his stewardship 601 lodges, 594 under charter and 7 now under dispensation. As of July 31, 1949, the aggregate membership was 190.543,
another all-time high. The net gain was 7,365. Growth of membership,
of course, is not our yardstick for measuring success, but rather indicates
the basic fact that more men are desirous of receiving those truths set
forth in our Masonic philosophy because of the favorable impression
they have of the craft and its members generally.
COOPERATION AND INFORMATION

A little over a year ago as I approached the res·ponsibility of Grand
Master, I felt that something was lacking in our Grand Lodge organizational set-up. There seemed to be pages missing in the administrative
book of continuity. There were so many matters of great importance
about which I knew so little. After some discussion with the elected
line officers I called a general conference of the elected Officers and
the principal Committee Chairmen. We met for two days of serious
discussions on matters Masonic. As a result of these discussions the
concensus was that many questions of policy were clarified, and it was
recommended that other such meetings be held. I was in accord with
the idea because of the benefits derived, but none were held as funds
had not been budgeted for the purpose. I recommend that should my
successor desire to hold such conferences, sufficient funds be appropriated for the necessary expense of travel and hotels.
CONDITION OF THE CRAFT

The Past Grand Masters, both living and dead, who have been
called to direct the activities of this Grand Jurisdiction have been men
of great mental stature and ability. Each has had outstanding attributes
of leadership which, combined with the cooperation of the Craft, has
made it fairly easy for your present administration to keep affairs
running smoothly. As far as I can detect, there is complete harmon}'.

CONSTITUTIONS

Grand Lodge was also convened in special sessions on the following
dates ·and places for the purpose of constituting the lodges granted
charters at the last Annual Communication:
November 5, 1948, St. Elmo No. 697, Oakland
November 11, 1948, Crossroads No. 696, San Diego
November 26, 1948, William D. Stephens No. 698, Los Angeles
November 27, 1948, Meudell No. 695, Bakersfield

NEW LoDGES
Dispensations were granted to form new lodges, all of which were
instituted by me, as follows:
Jan. 22, 1949, Santa Ynez Valley No.;U.D., Los Olivos
Jan. 29, 1949, Rosemead No. U.D .. Rosemead
June 18, 1949, Westchester No. U.D., West Los Angeles
Sept. 28, 1949, Orinda No. U.D .. Orinda
Sept. 29, 1949, El Cerrito No. U.D., El Cerrito
TRAVEL AND VISITATIONS

Although I have consistently put in a full week's work at my office,
except for six weeks for extended travel, I have been able to measure

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and lay out my work and time in accordance with our Masonic teachings
by dividing it into three parts (I cannot say equal), consisting of
service to God, our usual vocation and refreshment and repose. This
Great Jurisdiction, exclusive of Honolulu, covers over 155,000 square
miles, is 780 air miles north to south and 350 miles east to west at its
widest point and it is only with the generous cooperation of the brethren
that I have succeeded.
I have traveled approximately 20,000 miles by air ( 21 different trips
including Honolulu), 6,000 miles by rail and 15,000 miles by automobile.
My distant trips were on week-ends or holidays. Visitations within
125 miles of my home were scheduled for week nights, Monday through
Thursday. I am especially grateful to our Grand Tiler Alvin A. Horwege, who traveled with me on most of my local trips by automobile
( 73 in all). Special thanks are due two Past Masters of my own Lodge.
Plymouth No. 560, Brothers W. G. Thumann and Chas. K. Baxley,
who also accompanied me on many of these trips. These three brethren
were always ready and willing to take over the responsibility of driving
when requested. My thanks also to Brother William Rhodes Hervey, Jr.
as pilot and Mrs. Hervey as chief cook, for their generous hospitality
in taking me and other Grand Lodge Officers to San Diego and Catalina
Island on official visits on their very fine cabin cruiser the "Moana
Mele". Special orchids go to our Grand Secretary Lloyd E. Wilson for
filling in for me at Fort Bragg when I found myself snarled with "labor
pains" on June 21, 1949.
I was privileged to bring Masonic messages to approximately
45,000 Master Masons in person during the year, and to reach the
entire membership by the publication of one Grand Lodge Bulletin
in March.

K.L.X., Oakland. Letters, phone calls and general comment indicated
a rather wide listening audience.
The number of meetings, the hours spent, the miles traveled, and
the preparation time that went into each of them rather startled me
when the record was finally written. but all this seemed to fade into
obscurity when measured in terms of new friendships made and old
ones renewed. The courtesies extended, the genuine enthusiasm and
response of our brethren was the practical expression of brotherly love,
relief, truth, temperance, fortitude, prudence and justice exhibited by
them withersoever dispersed.

It is not possible to visit all 601 lodges or the 123 inspectorial districts, but through joint meetings and the combining of districts all but
one was within hailing distance of some scheduled meeting. I was
greatly honored and pleased on many occasions to learn that brethren
laid aside their working tools and drove 80 to 90 miles in each direction
to pay their respect to the office of Grand Master. In spite of these
several limitations I attended 152 meetings, divided almost equally
between official receptions and miscellaneous meetings such as De
Malay, Masonic social functions, luncheons, Masonic Clubs, Service
Clubs, Club -Houses at the University of California, Homes reception
at Decato, Breakfast meetings, Constitutions, Institutions, etc.
On the Monday following Grand Lodge, the East Bay Masters and
Wardens Association tendered me an official home-coming welcome,
attended by about 300 Masters and Past Masters of Alameda and
Contra Costa Counties. One interesting innovation was that portions
of the program were recorded and later re-broadcast over radio station

SUNDAY BREAKFASTS

It was my privilege to speak at nine breakfast groups. as follows:
Oct. 17, 1948, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association
March 20, 1949, Los Angeles Masonic Board of
Relief & Employment
March 27, 1949, De Malay, Oakland, California
April 3, 1949, Long Beach Masonic Board of Relief & Employment
April 24, 1949, Sacramento Masonic Board of Relief & Employment
May 2,-1949, Berkeley, East Bay Masters & Wardens Association
June 19, 1949, Compton, Saint Johns' Day Breakfast
June 26, 1949, Truckee, 13th Inspectorial District
Oct. 2, 1949, Fresno Masonic Board of Relief & Employment
GRAND MASTERS CONFERENCE

In February I attended the Grand Masters Conference in the
Nation's Capital. accompanied by Deputy Grand Master Ellsworth
Meyer, the Grand Secretary Lloyd E. Wilson and P.G.M. William
B. Ogden, Chairman of Regional Ways and Means Committee, Region
X of the George Washington National Masonic Memorial Association.
This is not the time to report on all items of importance, but all who
have been privileged to attend these Conferences generally feel they
are tremendously worth while, and I strongly recommend that the practice established several years ago by this Grand Lodge of sending our
Deputy Grand Master, our Grand Secretary and the Grand Master to
the Conference be continued.
The Washington Conference in February is really a series of Masonic conferences for it includes the Conference of Grand Masters, the
Conference of Grand Secretaries, the annual meeting of the George
Washington National Masonic Memorial Association, and for
some Grand Jurisdictions the annual meeting of the Masonic Service
Association.
At the annual meeting of the George Washington National Masonic
Memorial Association your Grand Lodge was honored when the Grand
Master was asked to respond to the splendid address of welcome given

18

19

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

by Most Worshipful A. Douglas Smith, Jr., Grand Master of Virginia.
As Deputy Grand Master I was appointed a member of the Committee to prepare the program for the 1949 Grand Masters Conference,
an honor to this Grand Lodge which we sincerely appreciated.
By unanimous agreement of the Grand Master, the Grand Treasurer
and the Chairman of the Finance Committee, there was paid to the
George Washington National Masonic Memorial Association $50,000
( 15c per capita assessment) for construction to cover a portion of our
deficiency (See P. 253~1948 Proceedings) and $6,409.00 ( $1.00 each
newly raised Master Masons) for maintenance and endowment.

This year, as in previous years, your Grand Master was called upon
to present a number of veteran emblems. The outstanding event was on
the evening of November 12, 1948 when I was privileged to present a
75 year emblem to "Daddy" W. J. Burwell of San Diego Lodge No. 35

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

Although disappointed because the strike in Honolulu prevented
a sea voyage on the Lurline, Mrs. Siems, our son Fred and I flew to
Honolulu on July 2, 1949. The brethren in the Islands and their wives
gave us a reception more cordial than we had reason to expect. The
fact that we were deprived of the boat trip seemed insignificant when
greeted by all the brethren whose graciousness was exceeded only by
the beauty of the Islands. My itinerary, as prepared by Inspector A. D.
Potts of the 103rd District, Henry C. Wedemeyer of the 102nd District,
·with the cooperation of the Officers of the Island lodges, was most
complete and exciting.
It seems unwise to mention names for fear of overlooking someone,
but in addition to the two Inspectors, special mention must be made of
the special courtesies of Mrs. Potts and their son Bill as chauffeur,
"Wee" McPherson, Master of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 ,and Mrs. Mc~
Pherson, Warren Clark, Master of Lodge Le Progres De L'Oceanic
No. 371, and Mrs. Clark, Alvin E. Melim, Master of Honolulu Lodge
No. 409, and Mrs. Melim, Dr. 0. D. Pinkerton, Master of Schofield
Lodge No. 443, and Mrs. Pinkerton, William E. Leck, Master of Pearl
Harbor Lodge No. 598, and Mrs. Leck. Frank S. Ahrendt, Junior
Grand Steward, and M.rs. Ahrendt, Arthur T. Townsend, former Grand
Standard Bearer, and Mrs. Townsend who extended every possible
courtesy to us. All these, together with the Officers of the lodges, saw to
it that on the Island of Oahu the Grand Master and his family had never
a dull moment.
On the Island of Hawaii, Warren Flagg, Master of Kilauea Lodge
No. 330, and Mrs. Flagg, arranged part of their vacation in order that
we might visit the entire Island with them. They also arranged small
meetings with the brethren, their wives and friends, each noon and
evening as we paused for refreshment on our journey. Birney Taliaferro,
Master of Lodge Maui No. 472, and Mrs. Taliaferro, Chad Waterhouse, Master of Kauai Lodge No. 598, and Mrs. Waterhouse, and
many others each did their utmost and were successful in making our
visit unequalled and without parallel in the history of Grand Masters
visits to the .beautiful "Paradise of the Pacific."

On March 25, 1949 and on April 2, 1949, I was graciously re~
ceived by the members of our University Club House families who
are enjoying the facilities made available to them at Berkeley and at
Los Angeles. I was particularly impressed with the very definite part
these Club Houses are playing in the Universtity scheme of things. My
visit to my Alma Mater at Berkeley held an unusual interest for me
since I was the first Grand Master who had been a member of the Ma~
sonic Club as an undergraduate student, and a member of the Board of
Trustees, to return to the Club in this official capacity.
On May 13, 1949, I made my official visit in white tie, tails and full
regalia to the Masonic Home at Decoto. The reception tendered by
the residents of the Home was particularly enjoyed since I had been
privileged during the past several years to become personally acquaint~
ed with many of them. A goodly number of the 50 year Masons, comprising the Honor Guard for the occasion, had received their emblems
from my hands during the past several years.
On May 28, 1949, together with my brother Ted, Grand Sword
Bearer, and other Grand Lodge Officers, and a number of Past Masters
from Westlake Lodge No. 392, it was my privilege to raise my brother
Charles John Siems to the sublime degree of Master Mason. My
thanks go to Harold J. Blaine, Master, and Walter L. Berger, Treasurer
of the Lodge, for arranging this meeting.
At my request, the following a custom for many years, the Grand
Lodge of California was officially represented at the Annual Communi~
cation of our neighboring Jurisdictions as follows:
Grand Lodge of Washington, R. W. Ellsworth Meyer
Grand Lodge of Oregon, R. W. Arthur Paulsen
Grand Lodge of Arizona, R. W. Loui~ C. Drapeau and
. P.G.M. Chas. M. Wollenberg
Grand Lodge of Nevada, P.G.M. Chester H. Warlow
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS

During the year it was the privilege of some of your Grand Officers
to entertain Grand Lodge Officers for other Grand Jurisdictions, as
follows:

20

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

21

Nov. 5, 1948
Jan. 1, 1949
Jan. 1. 1949
Jan. 7, 1949
Jan. 7, 1949
Feb. 9, 1949
May 12, 1949
May 16, 1949
June 28, 1949
June 30, 1949
Sept. 1, 1949
Sept. 16, 1949
Oct. 1, 1949

District
7
District 50
District 91
District 96
District 94
District 68
District 48B
District 88
District 116
District 12
District 38A
District 102
District 58

Reginald Reynolds
L. Everett Richardson
Donald G. Campbell
John E. Chapin
Albert E. Carroll
Orin Compton
Fred A. Zweiful
John A. Owen
Charles A. Thomasset
Eric William Nelson
William Nankervis, Jr.
Eugene P. Jijine
Wilson E. Lathrop

H. Murray Campbell, Grand Master, York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Clyde Rush, Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge of Idaho
James Grieve, Deputy Grand Master of Scotland
Alexander Melroy, Grand Steward of Grand Lodge of Scotland
During the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar of the United
States of America, we entertained at a luncheon twelve Grand Secretaries from throughout the United States.
Your Grand Secretary and Grand Master were also present at a
dinner reception for Brother Rene Raymond, Sovereign Grand Commander of Scottish Rite of Republic of France, and Brother Eugene Busson
33°, his traveling companion: the host being Brother Felix Lenhart 33°,
now a member of Durant Lodge No. 268, F. & A. M., and former
Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia.

CENTENNIAL CELEBRATIONS

APPOINTMENTS

In an organization the size of this Grand Jurisdiction it takes many
hands working industriously in the many and various activities to keep
.it runing efficiently.
On the Special Committee on Grand Lodge Ritual I appointed John
W. Shenk, Leslie E. Wood, P.G.M., and William B. McKesson.
On the Special Committee to study the feasibility of purchasing
Benicia Temple I appointed Lawrence X. Carroll, Chester. W. Arnold,
P.M., James M. Barkley, P.M .. Dwight E. Wood and Otto J. Wohlgemuth.
The Special Committee appointed to study Trial Procedures is
composed of Louis C. Drapeau, Warren E. Libby, Lowell L. Sparks,
Herbert A. Huebner and Alfred C. Smith.
By action of Grand Lodge last year, the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California was increased to nine in number. It
was my priVilege to appoint to this important Board, L. Harold Anderson of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 F. & A. M., and Myron E. Smith of
University Lodge No. 394, F. & A. M.
Reference is made to P.G.M. Chester H. Warlow's report as respects the vacancy created by the resignation toward the end of last
year of P.G.M. Samuel E. Burke. In his place I appointed Brother ·Ralph
H. Head of Sunset Lodge No. 352, F. & A. M.
The unyielding hand of death took from the Board of Trustees of
the Masonic Club House at Berkeley, its President Milton T. Farmer,
. and its Vice President William B. Herms. The going of these two
faithfuls left a big gap to bridge. This was in part accomplished by the
naming of Brother Leo Sievert of San Marino Lodge No. 685, F. &
A. M., and Brother Paul Boren of Lakeshore Lodge No. 551, F. & A. M.,
former students of the University, to take their place.
Death and resignations in the Inspectorial group resulted in ap·
pointments as follows:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

-

On November 9, 1948, at the invitation of the Master of California
Lodge No. 1, I joined with Most Worshipful Dean Stanley, Grand
Master of the District of Columbia, and before a representative group
of Masons and guests, we jointly unveiled a plaque fixed on the outside
of the building located at 726 Montgomery Street, San Francisco. This
plaque commemorates the spot where the first Masonic meeting was
held in San Francisco.
On May 10, 1949, it was my privilege to join with approximately
200 brethren of Western Star Lodge No. 2 at Old Shasta, California,
for the purpose of celebrating 100 years of Masonry by that Lodge.
In keeping . with the occasion a steel casket was sealed after many
historical bits of information, documents, etc. were placed there includ·
ing the 1949 fishing license of P.G.M. Leon 0. Whitsell. He compromised on this rather than deposit a $20.00 bill which had been suggested.
The instructions on the cover indicate that the casket is not to be opened
until May 10, 2048.
Your Grand Master caused a scroll (see Exhibit "A" ) addressed
to the then Grand Master to be prepared. This was the work and gift
of Brother Joseph Krieger of Fidelity Lodge No. 120.
In addition to this, there were deposited a letter (See Exhibit "B")
autographed photos of the Grand Master and Grand Secretary, together with autographed copies of the Book of Ceremonies, Ross Digest, funeral service and installation service.
This occasion was also chosen as the proper time to dedicate the
congratulatory plaque authorized by Grand Lodge at the 99th Annual
Communication and which was procured pursuant to that authority. It
is inscribed with the following words:
"This plaque commemorates the one-hundredth Anniversary of the issuance by the Grand Lodge of Missouri,
May 10, 1848, of the Charter of Western Star Lodge No.
98 (now No. 2 of California). Presented by the Grand
Lodge of California, October 15, 1948."

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SPECIAL RELIEF

During the month of August, upon the urgent appeal for help by
Grand Master Repalda of Ecuador, I directed that $1,000 be transmitted
to them to assist the homeless and injured brethren whose property was
destroyed by the earthquake. There are approximately 2,000 Masons
in Ecuador, and the reports indicate such terrific destruction that I felt
the amount sent was little enough in comparison to the service it could
render. While action could have been delayed for official action by
this Grand Body, one cannot postpone hunger and suffering. The above
referred to amount was sent with our fraternal best wishes, with a request that they advise us if further assistance would be required.
GRAND LoDGE REGALIA

At the last Annual Communication there was appropriated $3,640
for the purchase of 26 sets of officers' regalia at $140.00 per set. With
the creation of the office of Asistant Grand Treasurer. one set was
ordered and delivered. The quality was excellent, it having been made
of prewar material. Shipping costs and other expense ran the price
slightly over $140.00. The manufacturer assured us that they had sufficient material of the same quality on hand to deliver 26 sets as required,
and the order was placed with assurance that delivery would be made
well in advance of our Centennial. October 9th, 1950. It developed that
the cost of the 26 sets would not exceed $4,095.00. It is therefore recommended that an additional amount of $455.00 be appropriated to cover
the increased cost of the new regalia.
COLUMBIA TEMPLE RESTORATION

At the last Annual Communication there was appropriated out of
reserves. the sum of $38,204.00 for the purpose of restoring Columbia
Temple, $1,101.00 being for the purchase of furnishings and equipment.
As authorized last October. I appointed two Special Committees for
the purpose of carrying out the policy adopted by Grand Lodge. namely,
to restore the Masonic Temple at Columbia for an amount of money
not to exceed $37,103.00.
One Committee, consisting of P.G.M. Chas. A. Adams, P.G.M.
Francis V. Keesling, and Henry C. Clausen who prepared and checked
the lease ultimately executed with the California State Park Commission
providing for a lease (See Exhibit "C") of 50 years with option to
extend the same for an additional 50 years.
The lease was executed in the name of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California on· June 1, 1949.
The second Committee, consisting of Brothers Ira Coburn. Harold
Engle and Donald Kirby, was requested to verify the design. type of and ·
cost of construction. This Committee made trips to the site in Columbia, checked footings for foundations and other details. It was deter-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

23

mined that because of conditions beyond our control and because of
physical conditions unknown at the time the original estimate was
made that the Temple probably could not be restored without additional
funds.
After several meetings with the Grand Master and Brother Leon
O. Whitsell. Chairman of the Committee on Columbia Temple Restoration, they were requested and instructed to make further study and
recommendations. These may be found in Exhibit "D".
INSPECTORIAL DISTRICTS

Pursuant. to authority under Section 53, some shifts were made in
Inspectorial Districts. With the addition of new lodges and others in
the making. I requested that a survey be made under the supervision of
the Ritual Committee, looking toward the further re-alignment of Districts. It is noted that some inspectors have as many as seven lodges.
Experience seems to indicate that four is a proper number, although
five is not too far out of line in metropolitan areas. Unfortunately, this
survey was not completed in time for me to take corrective action.
We have lost a number of our Inspectors through death and resignation. Section 53 provides,
"The Grand Master shall divide the Jurisdiction into Districts,
and shall appoint for each District an Inspector, who shall be a
Past Master of the Jurisdiction and (a resident of the District for
which he is appointed). and who shall, etc."
This last phrase has worked a hardship on the lodges for in some
cases it is almost impossible to find a man qualified and willing to take
over the responsibility of Inspector of the District. In some instances
an Inspector living in the Jurisdiction moves to the seashore or over
the hills to the country, thus disqualifying himself by virtue of residence. In some instances I find that the ordinances have been disregarded. It is, therefore, my recommendation that Section 53, 3rd line, be
amended by deleting the words "a resident of the District for which he
is appointed".
This amendment, if adopted, would be particularly helpful in rural
and mountainous areas where it is not practical to shift lodges within
Districts nor possible to find a Past Master qualified and willing to
carry the responsibility, but where a brother in a neighboring District
could be found who would be acceptable and who would serve.
MASONIC FUNERAL SERVICE

I have had a number of inquiries from Masters and clergymen as to
the proper interpretation of our Masonic law relating to others participating in conducting the funeral services for a departed brother. The
main problem seems to be "who is in charge of and who should conclude
the service?"

24

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The law governing Masonic funeral services has not been materially
changed since it was first considered by Grand Lodge. S~bsequent
interpretations with the lapse of time have caused some confusion.
In 1891 Grand Lodge adopted a report of the Jurisprudence Committee which states in part.
"We do not understand this to mean that no service except the
Masonic burial service can be performed at the burial of one who
has requested Masonic burial. but only that the Lodge must, in the
procession, occupy the place of honor, and must have charge of
and conclude the service. Not infrequently the friends of the decedent desire services in the church of which he was a member or
attendant, and it is customary and proper in such cases for the
Lodge to accompany the body to the church and there assist in the
proper church services, and upon the conclusion of such services
to conduct the body to the place of burial. and there, in accordance
with Masonic usage, conclude the services and consign the body
to the grave."
In 1916 Grand Master Burnett ruled that the Lodge must conduct
and conclude services in the following words:
"In reply to a question whether a brotlier's dying request that
his funeral services be conducted by the Masons and Odd Fellows,
I held that the language. of Section 164 of the Constitution should
be construed as liberally as possible, but that it certainly means
nothing less than the whole service should be under the direction
of the Masonic LOdge: but that out of respect to the wishes of the
deceased, as a matter of courtesy to the other great fraternal organ~
ization, the Worshipful Master of the Lodge might properly request
the Odd Fellows to render their service or a part of it at the chapel.
it being understood that the Masonic Lodge shall "have charge of
and conclude the service."
May 10, 1949

It seems to me that under this regulation the Masters of our lodges
should find adequate latitude to carry out the wishes of the deceased
brother as well as the wishes of the bereaved family. I believe that the
reference in Section 647 report of the Jurisprudence Committee, last line,
namely,-"conclude the services and consign the body to the grave" is
no longer applicable in many instances and should be changed under
today's practices. Lodges rarely conduct graveside services. Statistics
show that in California not more than 50% of all funeral services are
graveside.
It is therefore my recommendation that Sections 647 and 648, Edicts
and Resolutions, be rescinded and that our lodges conduct Masonic
funerals in accordance with Section 266 of Ordinances.
Section 266 makes no mention of clergymen. Should it be the desire
of the family that the Minister of the deceased brother conclude the
service, give a eulogy or words of comfort,. or participate at the beginning of the service, the Master, the family of the deceased and the
Minister of his church should mutually decide the order of the service,
bearing in mind, of course, that our entire service must be given.

Grand Lodge sustained his ruling.
The problems that arise seem to be not because of conflict with the
ordinances but with the ruling of G. M. Burnett that the Masonic Lodge
"shall have charge of and conclude the service."
This ruling probably was in order and served the craft well when
it was declared but times have changed and I have difficulty to believe
that a Masonic Lodge has a right to dictate to clergymen or the bereaved
as to who should conclude the service. Nowhere in Section 266, Ross
Digest, is any mention made as to who should conclude the service. It
merely provides in part that * * * "No lodge shall attend any funeral
service or procession unless it is under the direction of the Grand Lodge,
the lodge itself or another Masonic lodge. The lodge conducting the
service shall assign such positions as may seem to it proper to other
. t'ies * * * ...
M asonic ·1o dges an d to other sooe

25

HOTEL EXPENSES FOR APPOINTED
GRAND LoDGE OFFICERS DURING GRAND LoDGE WEEK

The brethren honored by appointment as Grand Lodge Officers are
selected because of their contribution to Masonry in their respective
communities. In selecting appointees the Grand Mastei: should not first
be required to obtain a credit report to determine if the brother is financially able to accept the honor.
Our law provides that they be reimbursed for travel expense but not
hotel expense. In addition to travel and hotel expense the men who
accept the appointments usually have other expenses in connection with
their services during the year and payment of the hotel bill in addition
to travel expense during Grand Lodge Week would be a very small
recompense to them.
It is, therefore, my recommendation that each appointed Grand
Lodge line officer be allowed, in addition to his travel expense, hotel
expense for the period of Grand Lodge: it being understood that no
officer shall receive such reimbursement in more than one of those capacities as outlined in Sections 67 and 68 of Ordinances, and subject to
same audit as provided therein.
SuccESSION oP AGES

The Grand Master has been flattered many times, even to the extent
of being embarrassed as respects his age. Some overly enthusiastic
brethren have released to the press statements to the effect that I am
the youngest Grand Master this State has ever had. That is covering
too much territory. I will admit to the statement that I am the youngest
and oldest one this Grand Jurisdiction has had this Masonic year.

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

After some discussion with Brother Elbert W. Davis, Inspector of
the 33rd Masonic District, he developed the following information:
"The present Grand Master became 45 years of age less than two
months after his installation. In the light of statements made by various
brothers to the effect that Brother Siems is the youngest or one of the
youngest men ever to hold the office, the actual facts will be interesting.
Of the 83 Grand Masters who have served our Grand Lodge in its
nearly 100 years of existence, more than 30 of them were under the age
of 45 years at the time of election.
The youngest was Nathaniel G. Curtis, elected in 1857, who was
only 32 years of age. and who held the office for four terms. The next
youngest was Bro. Oscar Lawler, elected in 1908 at the age of 33 years. ·
then Charles L. Patton. elected in 1899 at 34. Two of our Grand
Masters were 35, three were 36, including Past Grand Master Dana R.
vVeller, now deceased. Three Grand Masters were 37 years of age.
Four were 39 years of age. including Bro. Francis V. Keesling, now
Grand Treasurer. Nineteen of the Grand Masters were 40 years or
younger, and it is interesting to note that during the Srst twenty-Sve
years of existence of our Grand Lodge, the average age of the Grand
Master was less than 40 years.
On the other hand, during its whole existence. the Grand Lodge has
'lected but six Grand Masters over the age of 60 years. All of these
men are living today, Past Grand Master James B. Gist ( 1933), Randolph V. Whiting ( 1934). James T. Fraser (1935). Leon 0. Whitsell
( 1938). William B. Ogden ( 1940) and Arthur W. Brouillet ( 1945).
The oldest of these was Brother Fraser who was elected Grand Master
at the age of 69. The only other one who was elected over the age of
65 years was Brother Gist."
MINIMUM DUES
At the last Annual Communication Section 251 of our Ordinances
was amended providing that minimum dues be increased from $9.00
to $12.00 per year. Constituent lodges affected by this amendment were
required to initiate legislation to amend their own by-laws pursuant to
Section 1 of Article 13 of the Uniform Code of By-Laws under Section
133 Ross Digest, to conform to provisions of said Section 251 as
amended.
"' ...-.,,.~
Two lodges refusing to take the necessary steps defeated the proposed resolution. In each case I issued the following order:
1. There shall be no meetings of the Lodge held during the
month of January except the January Stated Meeting and a meeting
which may be necessary for the purpose of conducting the funeral
of a Brother, and there shall be no Degrees conferred.
2. At the January Stated Meeting business must be restricted
to the disposition of the Minutes, the payment of necessary bills,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

and the introduction of a resolution to amend the By-Laws to increase dues to a minimum of at least $12.00 per year.
3. At the February Stated Meting business shall be restricted
to the disposition of the Minutes. the payment of necessary bills,
and to the adoption of the resolution to increase the dues.
4. No other meeting shall be held during February except for
the purpose of conducting a funeral, unless and until the Grand
Master lifts this restriction.
The lodges complied with the order and I lifted the re~trictions.
TRIAL RECORD 1087 (GOLDEN RuLE LoDGE No. 479)
By order of Grand Lodge the Grand Master was directed to transfer
the above referred to trial to another lodge for retrial. Pursuant to that
order it was transferred to California No. 1, San Francisco.
OUTDOOR DEGREE
On May 5, 1949 I received an application for special dispensatior.
from Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38, F. & A. M .. to confer a Third Degree
in one of their public parks. It was my considered judgment that the
interests of the fraternity could best be served by denying this application.
MASONIC CLUB WITHIN A LoDGE
Madera Lodge No. 280 F. & A. M. for permission to form a Masoni,
On May 20, 1949, I received inquiry and request for approval from
Club known as "Madera Masonic Club," it being the intent to limit the
membership of the club to members of Madera Lodge. It is my belief
that the lodge itself .should have direct supervision of all the activities
of its members insofar as Masonry is concerned and that the creation
' of a club within a lodge sooner or later results in the development of
cliques and possible disharmony. It is my further belief that a lodge
can sponsor any special activity in keeping with the dignity of Masonry
that a club could sponsor. I recommended against the formation of the
club.
In connection with formation of new lodges, I have insisted that
where the request for dispensation grew out of a Masonic Club that the
Club be dissolved prior to or at the time the new lodge was instituted.
MoRAL AND PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
I was asked if a man 64 was considered too old to become a Master
Mason. I advised the lodge that the only regulations and restrictions
were those set forth in Sections 208 and 210, Ross Digest of Ordinances.
We have no law other than that the applicant for degrees of Masonry must be a man, etc., quoting Section 208. Some people I know
are old at Sfty while others are fairly young at seventy. An analysis
of applicants for degrees in the East Bay reveals that they range any-

28

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

where from twenty-one to sixty-five years of age. True, a man who has
waited until his sixty-fourth year has delayed becoming a Mason for a
long time and, in my judgment, should be very carefully investigat~d
as to his motives, but everything else being right the matter of years, in
my judgment, should not bar him. The true test should be "Is the applicant worthy and well qualified.''
SUSPENSION OF MASTER

.Under date of December 12, 1948, I received charges of un-Masonic
conduct preferred by five Past Masters against the Master of one of
our lodges. After investigation I come to the conclusion that the charges
justified the suspension of the Master and I so notified him on December
14, 1948. The following were named Commissioners to try the Brother:
Warren Libby, Robert Harris, Robert Shippee, Robert Peyton and
Albert Gordon.
MISCELLANEOUS

During the year your Grand Master was asked on numerous occasions to interpret our Masonic Law. This, I was happy to do. The
answers given could not be considered as decisions and as such are not
individually listed in this report. The answers given were found within
the framework of legislation already in effect.
They included miscellaneous inquiries embracing expenditure of
funds as respects the general funds of the lodge or refreshment fund,
contribution by a lodge of its funds to the Homes Endowment fund,
solicitation of funds from lodges through sale of tickets, use of Masonic
emblem and titles in advertising commercial enterprises, solicitation of
funds by a lodge for account of a highly respected brother in distress,
use of commemorative paper aprons at the public unveiling of a plaque, ·
receiving application for degrees from one not able to qualify physically,
the question of renting Masonic Temples to undesirable tenants and
subversive groups, use of Masonic membership to sell certain types of
life insurance and many others.
Where the deed had been done I tried to weigh the motive behind
the act and governed myself accordingly, usually whispering good counsel into the ear of the erring brother. It was not my desire to penalize
any brother for misdirected enthusiasm unless our Masonic law was
deliberately circumvented. Such instances, I am happy to report were
rare.
DECISIONS

1. In January 1949, it was called to my attention that a father,
not a Past Master, was invited to act as installing officer on the occasion
when his son was being installed Master of the lodge. After the installation ceremony, but before the first stated meeting following installation, the Master-elect was cautioned that under the circumstances there

(

29

might be some doubt as to the legality of any business transactions of
the lodge, since he had not been installed by a Past Master or by his
predecessor in office. The Master-elect sought advice_ and was i~forme_d
that in my judgment his informant had whispered wise counsel mto his
ear, and, in order to correct the error, it was recommended that a second
installation ceremony be had prior to the January stated meeting. I was
informed that the retiring Master installed his successor in due and
ancient form.
2. I was asked if an application received from one who had
to rely on the use of a hearing aid and who couldn't hear without it,
could be accepted by a lodge. I ruled that it could not be received. Section 883 Ross Digest, Edicts and Resolutions.
3. Crocker Lodge No. 454, F. & A. M., asked for a definition
of "Total Revenue.'' The letter of inquiry reads in part as follows:
"The problem of determining the lawful, full amount of Lodge
Funds for Refreshment and Entertaining is assuming serious proportions in our Lodge and is causing an unfriendly feeling to grow
among certain groups of our more active members, which condition,
certainly should not exist in any Masonic Lodge. We are therefor,
enclosing a copy of our Receipts and Disbursements from Dec. 3,
1947 to Dec. 7, 1948 inclusive, and respectfully present the following facts, with the sincere hope that you, Most Worshipful Sir, as
presiding Grand Master, may advise a solution, or issue a Ruling.
"Crocker Lodge No. 454 F. & A. M. is the owner of a building
which contains our Lodge Rooms, Banquet Hall and Kitchen. We
also have as tenants a Drug Store, a Safeway Store, Butter and
Egg Store, Barber Shop and upstairs a suite of Doctor and Dental
Offices. The total cost or book value of the land, building, furniture and fixtures is $72,139.46 and as of Dec. 31, 1948, we owe a
balance of $4,167.37 on a building loan, which we are paying off
in monthly payments of $240.00.
"We also own $5,500.00 in U. S. Treasury G Bonds.
"Please note that our building receipts for the year 1948 totaled
$10,125.75."
Group A maintained the lodge is entitled to spend 20% of the total
income: that is, income from dues, application fees and gross income
from rentals, and supported their contention by quoting Section 630
Edicts and Resolutions.
Group B maintained that the 20% permissible for refreshment. and
fraternal intercourse should be based on dues, application fees and "net
profit" from the income from the building.
I ruled that I could not concur with the decision rendered by P.G.M.
Burnett in 1916, Section 630 Ross Digest, Edict sand Ordinances,
wherein he ruled that "total revenue" means "gross." Grand Master
Burnett apparently recognized the possible indulgence in extravagance

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for social purposes and indicated that in that event it "should be brought
to the attention of the Grand Lodge that the needed change may be
effected." I believe that time has now come. I therefore ruled as follows:
"I have had for consideration your inquiry of December 31,
1948 regarding the definition of "total revenue" and the problem
with which your Lodge is confronted.
"I am not at all unfamiliar with Sections 159 and 630 of Ross
Digest but cannot concur with the decision rendered by P.G.M.
Burnett in 1916. Obviously, at that time it was the general rule
that single lodges were the owners of their temples. Since that
date we have many temples jointly owned not only by two or more
lodges but other bodies have joined in joint ownership. Even in
Masonry we have to be practical at times, and the ownership of
physical assets must be considered strictly on a business basis. It
is, therefore, your Grand Master's ruling that "total revenue" is
in effect "net revenue" as defined under present day modern accounting methods: that is, less all operating expenses such as taxes,
insurance, custodian, depreciation, etc."
4. During the time I was out of the State, Deputy Grand Master
Ellsworth Meyer ruled as follows:
"Your recent letter to the Grand Master was referred to me as
acting. Grand Master due to his absence from the State.
"You state that after initiation in 1925 an objection on moral
grounds was made to a certain Entered Apprentice, a committee
appointed, its report received and by vote of the lodge the Entered
Apprentice denied advancement. You further advise that he has
now made application for a waiver of jurisdiction in favor of.
Reseda Lodge No. 666 and you inquire as to the proper course to
pursue.
"Please be advised that in my opinion you should appoint a
committee to investigate the request in the same manner as is provided in cases clearly falling within Section 220 of the Ordinances
of the Grand Lodge. Of course So!-1thern California Lodge has
jurisdiction, but the committee should investigate the other phases
of the matter and report to the lodge, which will then decide
whether the waiver will be granted. It would seem logical that if
he is still objectionable that the waiver should be denied and if not
may be voted.
"If the waiver is granted you should advise the Master of
Reseda Lodge of the facts that it may determine whether it will
receive him in the further degrees.
"I do not for a moment infer that such is the attitude of any
member of your lodge, but it may be stated that it is not a proper
Masonic attitude that we don't want him, but if some other lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31

does let them have him, or, it is up to the other lodge to find out the
facts without assistance from us.
"You will probably find the report of the Jurisprudence Commiittee in 1868 (Ross Dig. No. 818) helpful although Grand Lodge
merely adopted the resolution at the end of the report."
I concur in the ruling given by the Deputy Grand Master.
GRAND LoDGE OF CHINA

During the early part of this calendar year we received an urgent
request from certain Chinese brethren in China for the loan of our Book
of Ceremonies covering installation of Grand Lodge officers and other
printed forms which might be used by the Grand Lodge of China. Every
courtesy was extended to these brethren and I am happy to report that
the Grand Lodge of China came into existence on March 18, 1949. This
new Grand Lodge is operating under very trying conditions. The information available to us indicates that the brethren chosen as officers are
capable and imbued with the spirit that will result in a strong Grand
Lodge in the Far East. We tendered our fraternal best wishes and the
frate~nal_ greetings o~ this Grand Lodge at the time their Grand Lodge
was mstituted. Their response gave every evidence of their genuine
appreciation of our interest.
MASSACHUSETTS AND NEGRO FREEMASONRY

At the closing moments of the Annual Conference of Grand Masters
in February 1947, held in the Nation's Capital, there was read a pro·
posed report rendered by a special committee of Past Grand Masters
of_ the G~~nd Lodge of Massachusetts. This report while dealing directly
with legitimacy and regularity of Prince Hall Negro Freemasons, went
~uch further a~d broke down the well established and recognized principle of Exclusive Territorial Jurisdiction practiced and respected by
all Grand Jurisdictions in the United States.
M.W: John R. ~oore_. G~and Master in 1947, eloquently challenged
the propriety of their action m adopting the report and pleaded for reconsideration of their action. See 1947 Proceedings, pages 42 to 55
inclusive. The following year, M.W. Grand Master Chester H. Warl~w ( 1~48 Pro~eedings-pages 32 to 39 inclusive) after giving additional mformabon on the subject in his free and frank manner,
r~c~~mended that this Grand Jurisdiction stretch its patience to the
limit m the following words:
. "My Brethren, on this subject now before us I have spoken
freely and frankly and perhaps over-forcibly. We do not intend
offense. We seek clarity and clarification. We desire correction
of a~ important misstep in. Masonic progress. We do not suggest
to this Grand Lodge that it should take any action to interrupt or

33

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

disturb the peace and good fellowship which, except in this single
instance, has existed for nearly one hundred years between the ·
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts and the Grand Lodge of California.
Rather do we hope that these remarks may clear the minds, not only
of the Brethren of our two great Jurisdictions, but also may simplify
the issue for the leaders of the other Grand Jurisdictions of this
United States. We pray that some clear thinkers and some kind
friends in some of these Jurisdictions may whisper good counsel.
gently admonish Massachusetts of her error, and succeed in convincing her that she is following a false Messiah, not out of. but
into, a Masonic wilderness."
This proved to be a wise decision for much good and wise counsel
was whispered into the ears of our brethren from Massachusetts. . While
the subject was not formally on the program of the Grand Masters'
Conference in February 1949, it was discussed off the record by many
of the brethren in attendance. Your representatives were a particular
target since many were interested in the position this Grand Lodge
would take in October 1949. Since my two predecessors in office had so
ably laid the foundation of our position, and concurring in that position,
I felt obliged, recognizing full well that it would be received with
mingled feelings, to issue a "declaration of intent" at the closing session
of the Grand Masters Conference. The statement was to the effect
that our patience was rapidly running out. I further indicated that if the
situation remained the same in October I would have no alternative but
to recommend to this Grand Body that we join the Grand Lodge of
Texas and of Florida in severing fraternal relations with the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts. The statement made at the Conference, as
was expected, was stricken from the record, but "even though the Judge
sustained the objection, I am confident the jury got the point."
·

"The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons
of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
14 June 1949
M. W. Edward H. Siems
Grand Master of Masons
San Francisco, 2, Calif.
Dear Grand Master:
Further with regard to your recent letter, I am glad to inform you
personally, as per the enclosure, that we unanimously accepted the
report of our committee and rescinded our vote of 1947.
I appreciate very · much your interest as shown in your long and
friendly letters since the Washing ton Conference.
Will you give my kindest personal regards to Lloyd Wilson, your
Good Grand Secretary. Sam Wragg joins me in this greeting.

32

I am pleased to report that through subsequent personal contact and
cooperation between our Grand Secretary Lloyd E. Wilson and Grand
Master Roger Keith of Massachusetts, the answer to many of our mutual problems were discovered. Evidences of embarrassment to the
Grand Lodge of California, created by this situation, were forwarded
to the office of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, and I am happy to
report that through wise counsel. patience and perseverance, peace and
harmony again prevails in American Freemasonry for on June 14, 1949
I received the following letter and report from Grand Master Roger
Keith of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts:-

Fraternally yours
(signed) ROGER KEITH
Grand Master"
"The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
June 8, 1949
Dear Brother:
Please be advised that the Grand Lodge of Masons in Massachusetts,
at its Quarterly Commumcation held today, accepted the following
report with reference to Negro Freemasonry:
Boston, May 11, 1949
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts:
As requested by you on March ninth, your Committee has reconsidered the subject of Negro Freemasonry. lt ·has given careful and
sympathetic attention to the various comments of certain other Grand
Lodges relative to its earlier report of November 25, 1946 as approved
by the Grand Lodge on March 12, 1947 and has re-examined the ori~
ginal source material on which its earlier report was based, but we
believe it will serve no good purpose to re-open the discussion.
Misunderstanding and statements which we feel to be erroneous
have produced unfortunate events. The net result is producing disharmony in American Freemasonry whereas unity is what we need more
than anything else. Unity and harmony are vastly more important to the
Fraternity than debates about Negro Freemasonry.

35

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Therefore in the interest of Masonic harmony. we recommend that
the vote of the Grand Lodge on March 12. 1947 whereby our earlier
report was approved should be rescinded.

work stoppage of some 2,000 men. and besides trying to be Grand
Master I have been sitting daily in labor negotiations since May 2nd.
fortunately, that is now behind us. We averted a strike, and I am now
trying to clear my desk so I can fly to Honolulu for my official visits
in the Islands for the month of July.
My kindest personal regards to you and Mrs. Keith.
Sincerely and fraternally.
(signed) Edward H. Siems

34

Fraternally submitted,
Joseph Earl Perry, Chrm.
Melvin M. Johnson
Arthur D. Prince

FoRM OF APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION OP APPLICANTS

Claude L. Allen
Samuel H. Wragg
Arthur W. Coolidge
After the acceptance of the report the Grand Lodge VOTED:
"That the vote of this Grand Lodge on March 12, 1947
relative to Prince Hall Freemasonry be rescinded."
Attest:
(signed)

Frank H. Hilton
Grand Secretary"

"Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons
of California
June 29, 1949
Mr. Roger Keith. Grand Master. ·
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Massachusetts.
Masonic Temple.
51 Boyeston Street,
Boston, Massachusetts.
My dear Roger:
.
.
Your recent letter was a most welcome message to all of us here in
California. May I offer my sincere congratulations to you, your Special
Committee and the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts for the bold and
forthright action taken. We, here in California, are very happy that
harmony again prevails.
In my recent visits, particularly in areas where disharmony has been
reported, when I make mentio_n of the reversal it always results in a
round of rousing applause.
·· I hope you will forgive me for not answering your personal note
by return mail, but for the last three weeks we have been faced with a

During the year I have discussed the problem of proper investiga·
tion of applicants with many of our brethren and have declared my own
views at many meetings.
Under date of June 7, 1949, I sent the following letter to all inspectors and Grand Lodge Officers and Past Grand Masters:
"Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of California
June 7, 1949
To the Inspectors:
Because you have attended many of the meetings addressed by me,
you will recall that I have made reference to our present application
forms. and our methods of investigations.
I have been impressed by the general interest taken in these two
matters and I am thinking of doing something specific about both of
them.
Some years ago we appointed a committee to revise the application
forms and report to Grand Lodge. I do not care to follow this procedure again, but I am interested in receiving suggestions as to what
should be contained in a new application form. Will you therefore
please send me just as promptly as possible, any ideas you or officers
of your district may have on the subject?
If you think that a manual of instructions relative to investigating
committees should be prepared, please let me have your thoughts on
that subject also.
I do not want to rush you, but it is my experience that by setting
and early deadline, we get as good a response as by letting a matter
take its own course and I would therefore like to have all of this material
by July 20th, so that I may consider it on my return from the Hawaiian
Islands.
Please send it to the Grand Lodge Office.
Fraternally yours,
(signed) Edward H. Siems
Grand Master
Attest:
(signed) Lloyd E. Wilson
Grand Secretary"

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The response was most gratifying. Many Officers Associations
held discussions and made group recommendations. Study clubs a~d
discussion groups have been formed in some lodges. M~sters have m
some instances set up a program of training and instruction for g~oups
of prospective brethren to be appointed to Investigating Committees.
I notice from bulletins that some of our Past Grand Lodge <?ffic~rs,
Past Masters and others have prepared talks on proper investigation.
Brethren these are the results I had hoped for. Such genuine response
augurs ~ell for the future of this fraternity. Congratulations and keep
up the good work.
The letters and reports received responsive to my letter . were
turned over to a Special Committee for analysis and later presentation to
this Grand Lodge. The Special Committee consists of Leo E . Anderson Inspector of the 17th District, Ralph Pierson, Inspector of the
95th District, Don Campbell, Inspector of the 91 st District, and Howard
B. Melendy of Eureka.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

37

In my opinion the prcper way to cure this situation is to repeal
Sections 243a and 243b and adopt legislation permitting a Lodge in its
discretion to grant dimits to Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts.
This will also make it possible for Lodges to dear their records of
Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts who do not desire to proceed
further. It has long been desired, but no practical way has been found
under our present law to accomplish it.
I further recommend that some limitation be placed on Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts which will require them to present themselves for advancement within a given period of time under penalty of
not having the remaining fees returned to them. I am aware of Section
572. but to me this does not appear to meet the situation. It seems to me
that after a three year period an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft.
who has not advanced in that time, should be required to reapply to the
Lodge for the remaining Degrees and be subject to the same investigation and ballot as any other applicant.

ADDITIONAL EXPENSE

It has been necessary to incur some expenses which were not foreseen last October and for which no appropriation was made. It h~s ~lso
been necessary to expend some funds in excess of appro~r1attons
granted. In each instance the Grand Secretary sought and receive~ my
written approval before the expenditures were made. 1:'he, detail of
these expenditures will be found fully set out in the Auditors Report.
BOARDS AND COMMITTEES

It is a matter of great satisfaction to any Grand Master to know
that the regular and continuing programs of the Grand Lodge are administered by competent Boards and Committees.
The Masonic Homes, Clubhouses, Board of Control. Endowlll;ent
Board. and similar activities will all be reported on by the appropriate
directing body. I express my thanks to them for work well-done.
DEGREES BEYOND Jurusmcr10N

Last October we ~dopted Sections 243a and 243b as a means of
having Degrees conferred for Entered Apprentices a~d Fellow. Cr~fts
who had permanently removed from California. Wh1l~ ~he leg1sl~~on
was well intended and at the time seemed workable 1t 1s my opinion
that it has not proved satisfactory. The machinery is cumbers~me and
conflicts with the laws of other jurisdictions. We now have mne cases
of our own Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts residing elsewhere
who can never become Master Masons because of the requirements of
this Grand Lodge which conflict with the laws and practices of other
states.

CONCLUSION

Not so long ago you honored me by sentencing me to a year of hard
labor as your Grand Master. You are now about to grant me parole,
and I now earnestly implore you to grant me a full pardon for my
shortcomings. While ~he sentence was at hard labor, in truth the genuine pleasure of it all minimized the labor involved. The unfailing support and the tremendous help which was willingly given by every
member of the craft, the Grand Lodge officers, both elected and appointed, the Inspectors who responded to every call, and finally to the
Grand Lodge office staff for their most solicitous cooperation. The
Grand Secretary spoke for them all last year during the closing of
Grand Lodge for truly "my slightest whisper was responded to as
though it might have been a roaring command". May I also include my
own office staff, for without their complete cooperation many problems
which have been solved would now be resting in the file labeled "unfinished business".
To be a Mason is a great honor; to be appointed to serve the craft
in any capacity a privilege, but to be called to the high position of Grand
Master of more than 190,000 true and loyal brethren of this Grand
Jurisdiction is above the price of material worth. No predecessor has
ever appreciated it more than I have. In a few short days the gavel of
authority will be surrendered to other and worthier hands. I have every
confidence that your inexhaustible support to him and them will continue. Painfully conscious as I am, of my inability to adequately express
myself at a time like this, I shall solicit the aid of the poet in these words :

38

GRAND LODGE ,OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I do not know how soon 'twill be
Ere I will cross life's darkest sea;
But when on earth my life shall end,
I hope in heaven to find a friend
That I did help, by act or word,
To follow Christ, the Risen Lord
No greater joy to man can come
Than just to know he's helped someone.
Thanks again for the honor and for the opportunity of serving as
your Grand Master; and may the Lord, the giver of every good and
perfect gift, bless the brethren -here assembled, in all their lawful under~
takings. and grant to everyone of them in needful supply, the corn of
nourishment, the wine of refreshment and the oil of joy.

EXHIBIT "A"

To: The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California, and
To: The Most Worshipful Grand Master.
GREETINGS

We. the Officers, of Grand Lodge, October 15, 1948-0ctober 14,
1949, extend and project our hearty Fraternal Greetings to you for the
year 2048, with full confidence that, as our predecessors gave us a pure
and strong Freemasonry in California, and as our successors have
delivered it stronger and unsullied to you, a richer Masonic heritage
awaits your successors because of your stewardship.
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Master
Attest:

Grand Master

39

LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary
HENRY D. OLIPHANT
Assistant Grand Secretary
GEORGE D. GAVIN
Grand Marshal
PHILIP N. MYERS
Grand Standard Bearer
TED R. SIEMS
Grand Sword Bearer
CHARLES FORBES, SR.
Grand Bible Bearer
CLINTON T. DUFFY
Senior Grand Deacon
RAYMOND P. WAKEMAN
Junior Grand Deacon
MAX A. PLUMB
Senior Grand Steward
PRANK E. AHRENDT
Jt.mior Grand Steward
JOHN M. GORDON
Grand Pursulvant
CHARLESE.ANDERSON
Grand Organist
ALVIN A. HORWEGE
Grand Tiler

ELLSWORTH MEYER
Deputy Grand Master
ARTHUR PAULSEN
Senior Grand Warden
LOUIS C. DRAPEAU
Junior Grand Deacon
FRANCIS V. KEESLING, P.G.M.
Grand Treasurer
ARTHUR WARREN
Grand Lecturer
REV. W. PAUL REAGOR
Grand Chaplain
MERVYN E. HANSHAW
Assistant Grand Lecturer
WALTER H. E. VON KONSKY
Assistant Grand Lecturer
OBED W. CARR
Assistant Grand Lecturer
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
Assistant Grand Lecturer
JOSEPH R. KNOWLAND, SR.
Grand Orator
PAUL A. PFLUEGER
Assistant Grand Treasurer

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
EXHIBIT "C"

EXHIBIT "B"
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of California, and to the Most Worshipful Grand Master.
Greetings:
Among the contents of the box sealed one hundred years ago you
have found, or you will flnd, the scroll, which I have caused to be pr~­
pared, conveying .the formal greetings of the Grand Lodge for this
occasion.
In addition to this I want to add my own warm personal greetings,
which I am doing in the Office of the Grand Master, located in the
Masonic Temple at 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, at the corner
of Oak Street, that being the northwest corner. The cornerstone for
this building was laid on October 11, 1911, Most Worshipful Dana
Reid Weller, Grand Master, officiating. The dedication of the Temple
took place on October 13, 1913, Most Worshipful William Parker
Filmer, Grand Master, presiding.
By the action of Grand Lodge October 1948 a committee. chairmanned by Most Worshipful Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master
and present Grand Treasurer, is now .taking the preliminary steps looking toward the erection of a temple to replace this one.
The greetings which I <;onvey to you are not only my own but those
of 186,835 Masons belonging to 594 Chartered Lodges and 4 Lodges
under dispensation, as well as the hearty good wishes of 123 Inspectors
who preside over their respective Districts.
We are indeed fortunate that we have in the Grand Lodge. at this
time, 26 living Past Grand Masters whose hands are symbolically
stretched across the next century to you.
I enclose the most recent photographs of the Grand Master and the
Grand Secretary. We know that we will have faded long before this
is read, but we trust the photographs are intact.
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Master
Attest
LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary
Dated: May 10. 1949.

41

CONCESSION AGREEMENT
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
DIVISION OF BEACHES AND PARKS

r

THIS AGREEMENT made in duplicate this last day of June, 1949,
by and between the STATE OF CALIFORNIA, acting through the
State Park Commission of the State of California, hereinafter designated State. and THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE,
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS IN THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA. hereinafter designated Concessionaire (whether one or more
than one).
WHEREAS. the State has established a policy of perpetuating the
Town of Columbia as nearly as possible in its original condition as a
typical California goldmining town: and,
WHEREAS, said State has found that the foregoing policy can best
be carried out by having actual habitation and normal town life carried
on by certain of the present citizens now occupying premises in said
Town of Columbia; and,
WHEREAS, the State Park Commission has found that the property hereinafter described is situated in the old business section of the
Town of Columbia and is of sufficient historic significance to be· preserved as a building representative of the early mining days of said
community; and
WHEREAS. Concessionaire is prepared to erect and maintain a
replica of the original Masonic Hall at the Town of Columbia,
W1TNESSETH:
That State, pursuant to the authority and in accordance with Section
5003 of the Public Resources Code of the State of California, and in
consideration of (a) the payment by Concessionaire of the rental hereafter set forth; and ( b) the performance by Concessionaire of the
covenants, terms, and conditions hereunder agreed to be performed by
said Concessionaire, does hereby grant certain rights and privileges to
use all those certain premises situated in the Town of Columbia State
Park, unit of the California State Park System, located in the County
of Tuolumne, State of California, described as follows, to wit:
Lot 3 of Block 17 of the Townsite of Columbia, as per the
Official Map thereof.
together with all buildings and improvements thereon.
This agreement is made upon the following terms and subject to
the following covenants and conditions, to wit:
1. State does hereby grant to Concessionaire the right and

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

privilege to occupy all of the above described property for a period
of fifty ( 50) years. This agreement may be renewed by Conces- ·
sionaire at the end of said period for an additional like period of
of time.
2. The term hereof shall commence on the 1st day of June
1949, and the Concessionaire shall pay as rental for said premises
the sum of One Dollar ( $1.00) per year, during the entire period
thanhis agreement shall remain in effect. The first of such installments being payable upon the execution hereof.
Receipt is hereby acknowledged of the sum of One Dollar ( $1.00),
being the first installment of rental hereunder for the period commencing with the date hereof and ending on the 31st day of May,
1950.
· .. I
3. The Concessionaire shall pay, if and when due, all electric,
gas, and other charges accruing or payable in connection with the
use and occupation of said premises.
4. If Concessionaire shall, at any time, be in arrears in, or fail
or refuse to pay, any installment of rent, or any part thereof, or if
if Concessionaire shall, at any time, fail and neglect to perform or
observe any of the conditions, covenants or agreements herein contained, or if Concessionaire shall become bankrupt or insolvent,
then, and in any or all of said events, State may, at its option without any notice, re·enter and take possession of said premises,
remove all persons and property therefrom, declare this agreement
forfeited, and terminate all of Concessionaire's rights herein and
hereunder.
5. Concessionaire shall use the premises herein described as
a MASONIC TEMPLE, and he shall not use the same for any
other purpose, or purposes, without the written consent of State
-first had and obtained; Concessionaire shall not commit, nor permit
the commission of. any waste on said premises, nor do, nor permit
to be done, any act thereon in violation of any law or ordinance,
nor shall he use, nor permit the use of said premises for any illegal
or immoral purpose, and Concessionaire shall in the use and occupancy of said premises at all times comply with all applicable laws
and lawful regulations, including such rules and regulations of
the State Park Commission now in effect or hereafter adopted,
copy of said rules and regulations attached hereto and made a part
hereof. Concessionaire shall use the highest degree of care in
preventing loss or damage to the premises, including loss by fire.
If said premises (including any building or buildings thereon) or
any part thereof, shall at any time be destroyed or damaged by
fire, or other unavoidable casualty, so that, in the opinion of State,
they shall be thereby rendered unfit for occupation or use as herein
provided, then, and in that event, Concessionaire may immediately

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

restore said premises to that condition as it so enjoyed immediately
preceding said damages.
Concessionaire has examined said premises and accepts the
same in their present condition, and agrees
(a) That he will not call on State to make any improvements on, or repairs to, said premises.
( b) That he will at his own expense keep the same in as
good condition and repair as they now are, or may hereafter be
placed, reasonable wear and tear and damage by the elements or
other casualty excepted; and,
(c) That he will keep all grounds, yards, and lands, included
in said premises free from rubbish, noxious weeds and other unsanitary matter;
and Concessionaire hereby waives any and all rights under Section
1942 of the Civil Code of the State of California.
7. Concessionaire shall not, without written consent and approval of State,
(a) Assign this agreement;
( b) Sublet the demised premises, or any part thereof.
Provided further that if above said consent and approval is given
by State, it is understood and agreed that any rentals obtained by
Concessionaire thereunder will be used only for the operation and
maintenance of any structure or structures constructed on said
premises by Concessionaire.
8. Any and all additions made to said premises by Concessionaire shall be, become and remain the property of State; provided
however, that Concessionaire may install trade fixtures and temporary office partitions, in conformance with all applicable laws
and ordinances. Concessionaire may, at any time before the termination of his tenancy, remove said fixtures and partitions, if, at the
time of any such removal. Concessionaire be not in default hereunder and the demised ·premises be not damaged by such removal.
If, on the other hand, said aditions be such that the removal thereof
would damage the demised premises, then, and in that event, Con·
cessionaire shall, at the time of such removal repair any and all
such damage. State shall have the right to place and maintain, on
or about said premises, all such notices or signs as may be necessary
to protect itself from loss or from mechanics liens or otherwise.
9. Concessionaire shall protect and release State and save it
harmless, from any and all liability arising out of.
(a) Any damage or injury to any occupant, licensee, invitee, or any other person or persons, resulting from the use or
misuse of said premises by Concessionaire or by any other person or persons; or

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

( b) Any loss or injury to the person, property, or effects
of Concessionaire, or of any other person or persons suffered, or
sustained, in, on, or about said premises, by reason of any present
or future defect, latent or otherwise, of or in said premises, or
any part or portion thereof.
10. There is reserved unto State the right,
(a) To use all existing easements, ........................................
ways, water ways, and ditches;
( b) To make inspections, investigations, and surveys on
the premises hereinabove described;
( c) To construct, maintain, and operate on said premises
works and structures in connection its works and property;
( d) To have ingress and egress to, from, in and over, and to
enter upon said premises and every part thereof, and thereon,
to do all things necessary and convenient, and in the case of
necessary work designed to restore and repair said premises in
the exercise of the rights hereinabove described.
11. Concessionaire agrees to remain in exclusive control of his
personal property and State assumes no responsibility in the care,
maintenance, or preservation thereof.
12. Concessionaire sha"ll not allow any signs, placards or
advertising matter (other than the usual and ordinary business
signs of Concessionaire) to be placed or maintained on or attached,
to said premises or any part thereof, without the written consent
of the State, or its duly authorized representatives; and such business signs shall be placed, maintained and attached in such manner
as the State, or its authorized representative, shall prescribe.
13. Concessionaire agrees that, upon the expiration or any
termination of this agreement, he will quit and surrender the management and control of the said premises and possession of the
property herein demised in as good a state and condition as reasonable use and wear thereof will permit (damage by causes beyond
Concessionaire's control excepted).
14. Concessionaire agrees that, should the property description above set forth encompass any land the title to which is not
now perfected, or which is not now vested in State this agreement
shall give, and be construed as giving, to Concessionaire a right of
possession only to the extent such right may be lawfully given by
State.
Any notice to the Concessionaire may be given by State, either
(a) by delivering such notice in writing to Concessionaire personally. or (by) sending such notice in writing by registered mail
addressed to Concessionaire to Grand Lodge Free . and Accepted

45

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

,

,.

Masons of the State of California, or at such other address as Concessionaire may from time to time designate in writing.
16. Time is of the essence of this agreement.
17. Unless the context shall otherwise require, words herein
used in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter,
and the single number shall include the plural, ad the plural the
singular.
18. This agreement shall be binding upon, shaH inure to the
benefit of. the heirs, representatives, successors and assigns of the
respective parties hereto.
19. This agreement may be modified or terminated at any time
by the mutual agreement of the parties.
20. Anything to the contrary herein nothwithstanding, it is
understood and agreed that Concessionaire and such subordinate,
related or like organization as may be so authorized by Concessionaire, may use the whole or any portion of the premises or
structures now or hereafter thereon, for any purpose or purposes
related to Masonic work, ritual or law, and on such terms and for
such compensation to Concessionaire as it may determine; any net
profits thereof to be used only for the operation, construction or
maintenance of any structure or structures now or hereafter on
said premises.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set
their hands the day and year first herein written.
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

By and through its State Park Commission
By....................................................................
Chairman

Attest:

-·······················································
Executive Secretary

Approved:

.......................................................
Director of Natural Resources

. ...................................................................................... _.. __
Concessionaire

........................ ................................... ............................ _,.
Concessionaire
~

~

..

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT "D"
Mr. Edward H. Siems
Grand Master
Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted
Masons of California
1106 Broadway
Oakland 4, California
Dear Ed:
I am writing with respect to the rebuilding of the Temple at
Columbia, and confirming our telephone conversation of today.
We have now practically completed redrafting our plans and specifications in an effort to reduce the cost of this project. As drawn now,
I have reduced the over all size to 28 x 50 and have made a number of
savings which I am sure will be reflected in the cost. We are now almost
ready to put the job out for bids and Harold Engle is revising his structural plans.
I will call for bids to be due just prior to the opening of Grand Lodge
and will require that the bids be firm for thirty days to give the Grand
Lodge an opportunity to reject or accept the low bid. At the opening of
Grand Lodge I will have a perspective drawing of the proposed drawings together with blueprints, specifications, and the bids. The lodge
hall, as now revised, will be 25' 6" wide, and 38' long, with a .14' ceiling.
Figuring at 7 sq. feet, per person, this would accommodate 138 people.
We have drawn no money on this account and would appreciate
receiving a portion of our fee at this time. We have been warking on
this job for several months and have expended a considerable amount
in drafting and redrafting of the plans. As per my letter to Leon Whitsell of June 29, 1949, we agreed to furnish complete architectural services for a fee of 6% of the cost of construction. Brother Engle agreed
to donate the structural engineering services. We will be donating to
the fraternity by working on a · 6% fee, and you can be sure of our
interest.
I am enclosing a statement in the amount of $750.00 on account. If
the project does not go ahead, we will consider this as paymeht in full.
1£, however, the building is built, we will credit the $750.00 against the
·
total 6% fee.
Sincerely yours,

RESOLUTIONS

DoNALD BEACH KIRBY

47

The Grand Secretary then read the following resolutions, all of
which were referred by the Grand Master to the Committees as noted:

Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse
Be it resolved that Section 159 of the Ordinances of the Grand
Lodge of California F. & A. M. be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 159. A lodge may expend, in its discretion, not to exceed thirty
per cent of its total revenue for the purposes of refreshment and promotion of Fraternal intercourse. This fund may be cumulative in the discretion of the lodge in an amount not to exceed twenty per cent between
January 1st, 1920 and January 1st, 1950, and in an amount not to exceed
thirty per cent thereafter.
Respectfully submitted,
MIKE

s. OLDERSHAW, WM.

Bakersfield No. 224
FRANK M. WILKSON, W.M.

Meudell No. 695
ORVILLE L. COBURN, P.M.

Bakersfield No. 224
· Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence.
·

Notice to Elect Commission
1. Resolved that Section 296 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be
amended by adding:
"Said notice shall show that it is issued by order of the Master and it
shall bear the attestation of the Secretary."
2. Resolved that section No. 297 shall be amended by adding:
"K
Attest : G

H

L

, Master.

, Secretary."
Respectfully submitted,
WM. T. LISENBY, JR., P.M.

The message was referred to the Committee on Segregation, and the
Deputy Grand Master appointed the following as members of that Committee: S. Leslie Hawken, Chairman, Roy T. Kiele and John Garside.

University Lodge No. 394
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence.

49

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Form of Application for Degrees

Attendance, Ritual, and Finance

· RESOLVED. that the form for Application for Degrees, as prescribed by Section 223 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge, be amended
by adding thereto a question reading as follows:
"Have you ever been charged with, pied guilty to, or convicted of
any crime? If so. state the particulars thereof."

During the past twenty-five years changes in our economy and new
developments in the field of entertainment have had marked effect upon
the social life of society as well as upon Master Masons' interest and
attendance at their respective lodges.
.
While these changes have been taking place in other fields. masonry
has continued to present its teachings through the medium of the same
vehicle as was used 50 years ago.
Having the above in mind and because of a full appreciation of
masonry and its need during these trying times, it is suggested that the
Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons in California, herein assembled. assign to the proper committee authority to survey the attendance
of members at their lodges, the ritual and where it can be altered to
more effectively_meet the conditions of today, the laws and constitution
of California Masonry relative to individual lodge finances; reporting
to the next communication of this Grand Lodge.

48

Respectfully submitted,
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
BY FRANK B. BELCHER, Chairman
P. M. Wilshire Lodge No. 445
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence.

Discretionary Expenditures
SECTION 158. Each lodge may provide, in such manner as it may
deem proper, for the payment of its officers or representatives in attending the communications of the Grand Lodge. It may in its discretion
appropriate from its funds any amount for the purchase of a testimonial
for its retiring Master and for flowers for an ill brother. It may also in
its discretion appropriate from its funds, not to exceed $20.00 for each
deceased brother, which it may expend for flowers for his funeral or
family, or may donate to the Grand Lodge of California to become a
part of its Endowment Fund in his memory. or may apportion between
such expenditure and such gift.
Respectfully submitted,
BALLARD WHITE

Example No. I-The lectures are now given to the candidate when
he is in a confused state of mind and unable to derive the most from
them. Why not eliminate the giving. of the lecture after the First and
Third degrees until at the end of a Master's year and at that time have
the master assemble those candidates raised during his year and then
render a revised lecture that will cover the three degrees.
Example No. 2-Under present masonic law a Master is prohibited
from spending more than 20% of the Lodge's income for entertainment,
neither is a lodge permitted to support any endeavor that will bring
into the treasury funds for further entertainment purposes. With fewer
candidates and the amount required to cover dues remitted a master is
faced with a difficult problem of maintaining interest.
With full appreciation of the difficulties to be met in complying
with the above suggestions and yet believing their adoption will be
beneficial to masonry in meeting the changed conditions of today, I
ask that this be properly channeled so as to secure it's adoption.

Master, Crockett Lodge No. 139
Respectfully submitted,
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
Jurisprudence.

IRWIN G. BEADLE

Master of Corona No. 324
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

. 50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Form of Application for Degrees

the original furniture etc., they still possess and will act as hosts to
Lodges desiring to vi~it this first Masonic Temple and will underwrite
Grand Lodge's expense of purchasing and reconditioning the old Temple up to the amount of $2500.00, and will assist the History Committee
in maintaing the old Temple by acting as custodians of the Old Temple
by keeping it in repair,

Be it hereby resolved that the members of Upland Lodge No. 419
F. & A. M. regularly convened at its June 1949 Stated Meeting, vote
unanimously to request the Grand Lodge of Masons in California,
to incorporate and include in the application for the degrees of Mason·
ry, the following questions:
1-DO YOU NOW BELONG, OR HAVE YOU EVER BELONGED TO ANY GROUP OR BODY, THAT DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY ADVOCATED. OR ADVOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT BY
FORCE OR VIOLENCE?
Yes............. ,..

No................

2-Are you now a Communist or have you ever been a Communist?
Yes................

51

Now. therefore, Be it Resolved that this Grand Lodge appropriate
the sum of Five Thousand Dollars ( $5,000.00) for the purpose of purchasing and reconditioning the Old Temple at Benicia.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORE T. GARVIN, Master

Clarence B. Hetzel, Secretary
Benicia Lodge No. 5

No............•...

Respectfully submitted,
WALTER W .- HoRAK, P.M.

Secretary of
Upland Lodge No. 419
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
Jurisprudence.

Purchase of the Old Benicia Masonic Temple
Whereas, at the 99th annual communication of Grand Lodge,
Lawrence X. Carroll, Master of Benicia Lodge No. 5, presented a
resolution proposing that the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee to investigate the purchase by Grand Lodge of the Old Masonic
Temple at Benicia, which proposal was recommended by the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes and the resolution adopted, and
Whereas, this was the first building to be officially dedicated as a
Masonic Temple in the State of California, it having been completed
by Benicia Lodge No. 5 in October 1850 and dedicated by Grand
Lodge December 27, 1850, and
Whereas, the Temple is now owned by the County of Solano and is
now for the first time in more than 2 decades, available for purchase,
and may never again be available and may fall into the hands of parties
who will remodel or raze it, and
Whereas, Benicia No. 5, whose present temple property joins the
old Masonic Temple, in consideration for the privilege of using the
ground floor of the old Temple as a clubroom will restore thereto all

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
Finance.

Expenditures for Public School Week Observance
WHEREAS : Because of Masonry's interest in, and concern for,
public education, the observance of Public Schools Weeks was insti•
tuted, and continues to be fostered by. Grand Lodge : and
WHEREAS: The primary purpose of the observance was, and is,
to focus the attention of the people of every community on their public
schools; and that purpose is carried into effect by, and through, the
constituent lodges which each year are tequested by the Grand Master
to join the observance : and
WHEREAS : The lodges are at present required to meet such expense as may be in~urred out of the revenue provided for the purposes
of refreshments and the promotion of fraternal intercourse; and
WHEREAS: That restriction is working a financial hardship on
the smaller lodges because, due to the changed economic conditions
and increased costs. the revenue available is not more than sufficient
to provide for the social affairs, and the entertainment of their members in their lodge rooms :
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED : That by a majority
vote of its members present at any regular meeting, a constituent lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

may pay out of its general fund any expense necessarily incurred by it
in the observance of Public Schools Week.

enstock and Albert J. Brazee, Jr. He expressed the wish of the Grand
Lodge that Brother Rosenstock have a safe and pleasant voyage to
Manila, on which trip he is about to embark.

52

Respectfully su'bmitted,
Y ouNT loDGE No. 12
NAVAL LODGE No. 87
BENICIA loDGE No. 5
ST. HELENA loDGE No. 93
SoLANo loDGE No. 299
VALLEJO loDGE No. 487
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

Membership Information
WHEREAS, this Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication ~n
the year 1940, as reported at page 239 of the Procee~ings of sa1~
year, adopted as ~ policy of Grand Lodge that secretaries of cons.tituent lodges should be authorized to furnish upon req~est of secretari~s
of co-ordinate Masonic bodies information concerning the Masonic
standing of a member of such lodge, and
· WHEREAS, the necessary enabling legislation was not submitted
to Grand Lodge for action thereon; NOW. THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED that Section 202 of the Ordinances of this
Grand Lodge be amended by adding thereto a paragraph to read as
follows:
"12th. To certify the Masonic standing of a member of his
Lodge when requested so to do by the Secretary of
any body or organization the prerequisite to membership in which is that the applicant be a Mason or
related to a Mason."
Respectfully submitted,
WM. B. OGDEN
Past Grand Master
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

The Grand Master presented to the Grand Lodge four distinguished
visitors all Past Grand Masters of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Island~namely, George R. Harvey, Will Taylor, Christian W. Ros-

53

At 12:40 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 P.M.

AFTERNOON SESSION
At 2:00 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master
presiding.
The following distinguished guests were received with Grand
Honors, presented at the Altar and appropriately greeted by the Grand
Master:
Shalor C. Eldridge, Grand Master of Oregon,
Walton T. Baker, Grand Master of Nevada,
Willis R. Pinkerton, Grand Master of Arizona.
The following distinguished Brethren were presented by the Grand
Marshal and greeted by the Grand Master:
Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary of Oregon,
Asa H. Hankerson, P.G.M., of Washington,
C. A. Carlson, Jr., Past Grand Master of Nevada,
George R. Harvey, Albert J. Brazee, Jr., and William H. Taylor,
Past Grand Masters of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands,
Alfred S. Lee, Grand Secretary of China,
W. C. Willoughby, Grand Marshal of Nevada, and
E. F. Gayle, P. G. M. of Louisiana.

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

Pursuant to recommendation and appropriate legislation, Past
Master Paul Pflueger was appointed and installed as Assistant Grand
Treasurer. It was the intent that the appointment of such officer should
be based on successful investment experience. That the recommendation
was sound has been demonstrated by the valuable services of Brother
Pflueger, based on his investment experience. He has been most interested and assiduous in making recommendations and in cooperation
with the Grand Treasurer, as this report will indicate.
At the annual communication in 1948 attention was invited to the
exceedingly large percentage of government bonds in portfolios, with the
observation that that situation could not be corrected even if desirable
without the amendment of the regulations governing investments. This
was followed by the comment in substance that circumstances may
develop the advisibility of extending the scope of qualified investments,
and that, if so, appropriate legislation should be considered. We have
now concluded that it is timely that consideratian be given to such extension of qualified investments by adopting what is designated "The
Prudent Man Rule" as related thereto. To that end there is appended
hereto as Exhibit No. 1 a monograph of pertinent facts prepared by
the Assistant Grand Treasurer, with the recommendation that the entire
tubject be considered by the Committee on Finances and the Committee
en Investment of Endowment Funds.
It is the Grand Treasurer's recommendation that the rule be adopted
and made applicable to all such funds as are now limited to federal,
county. state and municipal securities legal for savings banks. (Secs.
655 and 721 ).
Jn addition to the fact that such is a sound rule of investment, as has
been demonstrated by many so-called balanced funds, we should not
continue to be a cog in the machinery of government adapted, at least
at present, to the policy of maintaining low rates of interest by artiflcial
controls. Also, Gr~nd Lodge would be contributing to the business and
industrial welfare of the country by making funds available for productive use by successfully operated private enterprises.
Also, after mature consideration-a long time-I am of the opinion
that lodges should be allowed greater autonomy and not be circumscribed with unreasonable restrictions. To that end it is our recommendation that with respect to investments in securities, the Prudent Man
Rule be made applicable to lodges.
In relation to the recommendatioX:s herein made with respect to the
Prudent Man Rule, in these modern days all investors have access to
statistical and other departments of banks concerned with investments,
where impartial and sound advice may be obtained as a service available
to customers. After October 1, 1949, there will be no "legal for savings
bank" list in California, which in itself seems to make it incumbent on
Grand Lodge to clarify investment of funds by lodges.

For Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1949
To the Brethren of Grand Lodge:
For your information, the Grand Treasurer describes the course of
funds received from all sources. Receipts from the several lodges are
deposited by the Grand Secretary to the credit of the Grand Treasurer
in the account maintained for that purpose with the American Trust
Company. In this account there is also deposited during the year s.uch
other items as bequests, proceeds of sales, etc. which are transmitted
directly to the Grand Secretary's office for the account of the Endowment Fund, the Masonic Homes or the Grand Lodge.
At the end of each month there is withdrawn from the above reservoir account, the total of amounts belonging to the Grand Lodge, the
Endowment Fund, the Masonic Homes General Fund or to any of the
14 special funds of the Masonic Homes in order that such items may be
deposited in the separate accounts of these funds.
Income from investments is received by the Anglo California National Bank under the existing custodial arrangements. Such receipts
together with collections on notes, proceeds of sales and other items
transmitted directly to the bank are deposited by it in the account of.
the particular fund involved.
For purposes of routine operation, money is transferred . from the
main accounts carried by the Grand Treasurer to "Operating Fund
Accounts" maintained under different signature arrangements. Appropriations and other special items (such as payments on contracts in
connection with homes construction ) are paid by means of checks drawn
by the Grand Treasurer on the proper accounts.
The magnitude of these transactions is indicated by the figures of
total income and disbursements tabulated in the auditor's "Consolidated
Statement,"The extent of these transactions is evidenced by the fact that
it involves 14 commercial accounts and 13 savings accounts, maintained
in the American Trust Company, Anglo California National Bank,
Bank of America, Bank of California. Central Bank of Oakland. Covina
National Bank, Crocker First National Bank. Security First National
Bank of Los Angeles, and Wells Fargo Bank and Union Trust Company.
The Grand Treasurer has endeavored from time to time, in cooperation with the Grand Secretary, to arrange the respective reports
so that "He who runs may read." It will be the endeavor this year to
further clarify the reports so that reconciliation will be less complicated.
In accordance with recommendation at the previous annual communication, expenditures by the Grand Secretary from the revolving fund
are subject to current monthly audit by professional auditors.

55

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is further recommended that appropriate legislation be prepared
to accomplish the objectives.
For many years, dating from April 1, 1920, during the period in
which our late well-beloved William P. Filmer, Past Grand Master, was
Grand Treasurer, Anglo California National Bank and its predecessor,
Anglo California Trust Company, has served as custodian of securities
and funds, for Grand Lodge and in an agency capacity relating thereto.
The agreement under which the bank and this Grand Treasurer have
been operating is obsolete and has been subjected to comment in that
respect by the bank examiners. This relationship should be clarified by
a sufficient agreement for the purposes.
Your Grand Treat>urer is submitting herewith a draft of a proposed
agreement between this Grand Lodge and Masonic Homes of Califo~~ia
and Anglo California National Bank, relating to custody of securities
and funds and pertinent services.
The agreement has been drafted to conform to the laws of Grand
Lodge and is intended to sanction the arrangement by the Grand Treasurer for custody of funds and securities and pertinent services. It is
the recommedation of the Grand Treasurer that the proposed agreement
be approved and execution by the Grand Treasurer authorized on behalf
of the Grand Lodge and on behalf of Masonic Homes of California, by
the President, or such officer of the Board of Trustees as may thereunto
be duly authorized by said Board.
Transactions between the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer
have proceeded in a most satisfattory manner. As in the past, the services of the Grand Secretary and his office, in relation to the functions of
the Grand Treasurer, have been most efficient and much appreciated.
I feel that I should be remiss if I did not particularly express by appreciation for the loyal and diligent cooperation of that hard-working, good
and faithful servant, Henry Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted
FRANCIS

V. KEESLING

Grand Treasurer
See pages 70 and 71 for Schedules of Maturities.

57

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT-EXHIBIT "1"

The Prudent Man Rule
The Prudent Man Rule was first laid down at the 1830 sitting of the
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, and was at that time known as
the "Massachusetts Trustees' Investment Rule."
The original state, Massachusetts, promulgated the rule by court
decision, and subsequently many other states passed statutes embodying
the rule. In passing such statutes practically all have followed the
original 1830 decision of Mr. Justice Putnam, the sum and substance of
which is as follows (and which has been embodied in the Model
Prudent-Man Investment Statute prepared by the Committee on Fiduciary Legislation of the American Bankers Associati~n Trust Division):
The Model Prudent-Man Investment Statute
1.
"Section 1. In acquiring, investing, reinvesting, exchanging,
2.
retaining, selling and managing property for the benefit of
3.
another, a fiduciary shall exercise the judgment and care
i.
under the circumstances then prevailing, which men of
prudence,
5.
discrefion and intelligence exercise in the management of
their
own affairs, not in regard to speculation but in regard to the
6.
7.
permanent disposition of their funds, considering the probable
8.
income as well as the probable safety of their capital. Within
9.
the limitations of the foregoing standard, a fiduciary is
·
authorized
to ac::quire and retain every kind of property real. personal or
10.
11.
mixed, and every kind of investment. specifically including
but not
12.
by way of limitation, bonds, debentures and other corporate
obliga·
13.
tions, and stocks, preferred or common, which men of prudence, dis1i.
cretion and intelligence acquire or retain for their own
account.
( 1ia. and within the limitations of the foregoing standard, a
· fiduciary
(Mb. may retain property properly acquired, without limitation as to
( 1ic. time and without regard to its stability for original purchase.
(Note-the foregoing addition to Section 1 is included for consideration
of those states which desire particular treatment of the retention of
trust property.)
15.
Section 2. Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed
as authorizing any departure from, or variations of, the
16.
express

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

terms or limitations set forth in any will, agreement,
court order or other instrument creating or defining the fiduciary's duties and powers. but the terms "legal investment" or
"authorized investment" or words of similar import, as used in
any such instrument. shall be taken to mean any investment
which
is permitted by the terms of Section 1 hereof.
Section 3. Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed as
restricting the power of a court of proper jurisdiction to
permit a
fiduciary . to deviate from the terms of any will, agreement,
or other
instrument relating to the acquisition, investment, reinvestment,
exchange. retention, sale or management of fiduciary property.
Section 4. The provisions of this Act shall govern fiduciaries
acting under wills, agreements, court orders and other instruments
now existing or hereafter made.

Thus far the following states have passed statutes embodying the
rule:
California
1943
Connecticut
1939
Delaware
1943
Idaho
1949
Illinois
1945
Kentucky
1930
Maine
1945
Michigan
1937
Minnesota
1943
Nevada
1947
New Hampshire
1941
Oregon
1947 (to some extent modified)
Texas
1945
Washington
1947
and the following states follow the rule by authority of a court decision:
Maryland
1849
1830
Massachusetts
Missouri
1940
North Carolina
1928
Rhode Island
1886
Tennessee
1936
Vermont
1882, 1883, 1908

59

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The following comments are taken from a bulletin of the Trust Divis·
ion, American Bankers Association, "The Prudent-Man Rule for Trust
Investment," in which the Model Statute is set forth. This booklet is
the work of the Committee on Fiduciary Legislation of the Trust Division and was largely contrived and written by Mayo Adams Shattuck.
Mr. Shattuck is a member of the Boston Bar, former President Massachusetts Bar Association, State Board of Bar Examiners, Massachusetts
Annotator for the Restatement of Trusts, and a widely known author
and lecturer on fiduciary subjects.

"It is to be observed that the model statute embraces all aspects of
fiduciary administration. It is not limited to the act of investment; it
most certainly is not designed merely to allow the purchase of corporate
bonds, debentures, preferred and common stocks. It seeks to bring into
the law of any jurisdiction in which it is enacted the elasticand beneficent
rule which obtains in states which follow Massachusetts. It imposes
an objective standard and it uses the precise language of Mr. Justice
Putman in Harvard College v. Amory, 1830. The heart of Harvard
College v. Amory lies in its next to last paragraph, viz.: 'Trustees are
justly and uniformly considered favorably, and it is of great importance
to bereaved families and orphans, that they should not be held to make
good, losses in the depreciation of stocks or the failure of the capital
itself, which they held in trust. provided they conduct themselves honestly and discreetly and carefully, according to the existing circumstances, in the discharge of their trusts. If this were held otherwise, no
prudent man would run the hazard of losses which might happen without any neglect or breach of good faith.'
"The aim of the model statute is to mold the law so that prudent
men will be freed from all manner of artificial shackles and liabilities in
the administration of the property of others. It is eminently fitting and
practically necessary that trustees be held (a) to the strictest possible
standard of fidelity; and ( b) the fairest and most fruitful, not the strictest, possible standard of care".
In that original decision the sentence is also included: "Do what
you will, the capital is at hazard."
'

"This is the so-called Massachusetts Trustees' Rule: observe that
it expresses a two·fold objective; a consideration of the probable income, as well as the probable safety of the capital. It should not be
supposed that it is right to emphasize one of these objections at the
expense of the other, particularly if the one selected for emphasis is
the precise one which the founder of a trust would have expected to be
of lesser importance. The income is important, safety, even if there be
such a thing, is not everything.''

60

61

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I. INVESTMENT SCOPE GENERALLY
From Trusts and Estates, February, 1949, page 74.
"The latest report of the Comptroller of Currency shows that 24%
of the total investments of $15,449,506,445 of living and court trusts
administered by national banks alone is in equities.
"The actual amount doubtless exceeds this substantially, since many
trust equity investments are reported on original received valuations
or even on nominal or $1 per share valuations for no par stock".
"In addition the trust departmens of state banks and trust companies
administer more trust funds than do national banks, and follow similar
investment practices. In some Prudent-Man Rule states, like Massachusetts, the proportion of investments in equities is about 50% and
even outside the Prudent-Man Rule states, a large percentage of trust
instruments under which trustees now operate give discretion to invest
in stocks as well as bonds or other legals."

"Now, in another accounting proceeding brought by Central Hanover Bank & Trust Co., the Court of Appeals has not only upheld the
constitutionality of the law but has also sustained the Surrogate's jurisdiction over common funds in which living trusts are participants.
"Except for a possible appeal to the United States Supreme Court
on the due process question the major legal problems of common trust
funds have now been resolved and the way is open to their efficient
and extensive operation. Maintenance of such funds by 64 banks in 22
states has demonstrated their investment and operating advantages,
both to beneficiaries and trustee.
"Since the present decision was handed down on June 2, a poll indicates that a number of New York trust institutions, which had deferred
action pending a final decision, are soon to inaugurate common funds
of the discretionary type. Of ten of the larger City banks not already
operating funds, four expect to start by the fall while only two do not
anticipate the need for their establishment. It was also pointed out that
the latest quarterly accounting date in the year has a tax accounting
advantage as the date for starting a fund.
"Several upstate banks also anticipate the creation of funds in the
near future, and this decision may well give impetus to establishment
of common trust funds elsewhere.''

II. "CAN INVEST IN STOCKS"
From Trusts and Estates, July, 1949.
"For the first time District of Columbia fiduciaries accountable to
the District Court will be permitted to invest in preferred and common
stocks, according to a recent announcement by Chief Judge Bolitha J.
Laws. The recommendation for this liberalization of Local Civil Rule
23 governing trust investments was made by Register of Wills Theodore Cogswell, who with the assistance of Standard & Poor' s will
compile the list of equities to be added to the legal bond investments.
"Only stocks listed on the New York (Stock and Curb), Washington or Philadelphia-Baltimore Stock Exchanges will be eligible, and
no more than 40% of the total value of a trust fund may be invested
therein, with a maximum of 10% in any one corporation."
Ill. "COMMON TRUST ISSUE RESOLVED"
From Trusts and Estates, July, 1949.
"The question of due process in giving notice of accountings to
beneficiaries of common trust funds, raised by a 1947 Surrogate's
Court decision, has now been settled by the favorable ruling of the New
York Court of Appeals, that State's highest tribunal.
"The Monroe County Surrogate's holdings would have imposed ·a
heavy burden of expense on trusts by requiring personal service and
special guardians for all beneficiaries non sui juris. In declaring unconstitutional New York's statute providing for service by publication
and appointment of one special guardian for income beneficiaries and
one for principal, this case had been a major deterrent to establishment
of new funds, in view of the basic issue raised.

IV.

Excerpts from "CURRENT PROCEDURES EMPLOYED BY
INVESTMENT MANAGERS OF ENDOWMENT FUNDS
OF EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, FRATERNAL AND
PHILANTHROPIC ORGANIZATION" by Henry J. Simonson, Jr., President National Securities & Research Corporation
(Aug. 1949)
"The following report is based upon a survey tqat was made to
determine the present investment procedures, methods, and types of
securities used by the managers of the investments of institutional
funds. Spcial inquiry was made as to the use of any type of formula
plan in timing changes in the percentages of the value of the respective
funds that are invested in bonds and in stocks from time to time.
"The educational, religious, fraternal and philanthropic organizations contacts all have sizable funds-the minimum amount of any one
fund being in excess of $2 million, the maximum amount over $200
million, and the aggregate of all funds in excess of $3 billions. Data
was· received from over 100 such institutions, and the following represents a factual summary of the information received.
"MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY. Of the institutions reporting, the majority indicated that the management of their funds is
delegated by the Board of Directors (or Governors) to an executive
committee, investment committee or finance committee. A number of
the institutions employ independent investment counsel firms or use the

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

services of banks or trust companies as investment advisors. In other
instances, the Board of Governors or Board of Directors make investment management decisions without outside professional aid. It appears,
except where the value of the funds is high in the millions, that little or
no full time office staff of investment analysts and statisticians is
maintained.
"TYPE OF INVESTMENTS. Twelve per cent of the reporting
institutions stated that their investment funds are confined exclusively
to government, state, municipal, and high-grade corporate bonds. Of
this group, it is apparent that a number, seeking greater income (where
permitted by law to do so) are considering the adoption of a more liberal
policy that would provide for investments of a certain portion of their
funds in high grade preferred and common stocks.
"Of the institutions reporting that their investments are in both
bonds and stocks, the percentage varies from 50% to 80% in bonds,
with an average of about 60%. Although a number of the institutions
have a small percentage of their funds in medium grade bonds, the
great majority favor governments and high-grade corporates.
"Preferred stocks of the better grade represent from 15% to 20%
of portfolio assets and except for relatively small amounts held in
cash for current needs, the remainder of the assets are invested in
high-grade income producing equities.
"It is apparent that institutional policies and objectives vary to
such a wide degree that the most desirable percentages to be invested
in bonds or stocks at various levels during cyclical movements of stock
prices would necessarily be so different as to require individual formula
plans in a great many instances. Certain institutions with a more liberal
policy as to funds being invested in equities could have a narrower range
for changes based upon equity price fluctuations than those of the more
conservative funds. Nevertheless the idea of changing the weightings
of portfolios as to bonds and stocks appears to be an outstanding
consideration of most institutions except those, of course, that are required to limit portfolios exclusively to bonds."

large sums of money which are not earning a satisfactory rate of
interest; that new conditions found by said trustees to exist are such
that they cannot invest said funds on hand in satisfactory bonds, bonded
securities, real estate, improvements on real estate, or in loans on real
estate producing an adequate rate of interest and affording reasonable
assurance of stable values; and
"That it is the opinion of said trustees
" ( 1 ) that such conditions require, in order that said trustees may
fully carry out the objects of the Founding Grant, that said trust funds
on hand, or a portion thereof. be invested (a) in debentures and shares
of stock of well-managed corporations which have enjoyed for a considerable period of time such a reputation for permanence and stability
that they co~man~ general confidence and cause careful and intelligent
persons familiar with such matters to commonly invest their own money
in the~ as a permanent investment. or ( b) in some other generally
recogmzed form of investment providing an adequate rate of interest
and affording reasonable assurance of stable values;
" ( 2) that under such conditions the investment of said trust funds
in such debentures and shares of stock would be to the greater benefit
of said University, in point of safety, stability and yield, than the
investment .thereof in other forms of investment more susceptible to
the depressmg effect of current conditions; and
" ( 3) that said trustees have the power, acting in the prudent and
a_nd fait~ful exer:ise ~f their discretion and as new conditions may from
tu~e to time require, .m order that said Trustees may fully carry out the
objects of ~he Founding Grant, to invest trust funds held by them under
the Foundmg Grant, as amended, in such debentures or in such shares
of stock, in bonds, bonded securities, real estate, improvements on real
est~te, in loans uf'?n the security of real estate or upon any other ~ecurity
sat~sfactory to said. t~ustees, or in any other generally recognized form
of mvestment providmg an adequate rate of interest and affording reasonable assurance of stable values; and
" ( 1) that said trustees should petition the above entitled court to
determine and confirm the existence of said power in said trustees."
From Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Petition.
"11. ~he Tru~te~s have determined that new conditions found by
them to exist reqmre m order that the objects of the Founding Grant
~e fully carried out that trust funds on hand or a portion thereof be
mvested as set forth in the Resolution of the Board and in Subdivision
1 of paragraph XXVIII of the Petition.
"12 . T~e power ~f .a t~ustee to invest trust funds is discretionary
when directions and limitations are not prescribed by the trustor.
Vol. 26 R. C. L.. p. 1305
Deaderick v. Cantrell, 31 Am. Dec. 576
Hale v. Hale, 33 N . E. 858

V.

From Petition of THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
LELAND STAN FORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY for DECREE
DETERMINING AND CONFIRMING THE POWERS OF
THE TRUSTEES WITH RESPECT TO THE INVESTMENT OF TRUST FUNDS. (Resolution passed by Trustees
Nov. 21, 1935.)
"XXVIII. That it is the duty of said trustees, and their successors, to invest and reinvest the trust funds in their hands for the benefit
of said University; that it is at times difficult and at other times impossible to invest trust funds in satisfactory bonds or bonded securities
yielding a satisfactory rate of interest; that said trustees have on hand

'*·

~

63

64

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"13. When power to invest is discretionary and. in the absen~e ·of
statutory prohibition a trustee may invest trust funds m stock of private
corporations of the type described in the petition.
In re Buhl, 178 N. W. 651
Harvard College v. Amory, 9 Pick. 446
Lovell v. Minot. 20 Pick. 116
Brown v. French, 125 Mass. 410
Kimball v. Whitney, 233 Mass. 321
Kimball v. Reding, 31 N . H. 352
Smyth v. Bums, 25 Miss. 422
Scoville v. Brock, 70 Atl. 1014
Gilbert v. Kolb, 34 Atl. 1014
Knowlton v. Bradley, 43 Am. Dec. 609
Fox v. Harris, 119 Atl. 256
Graham Bros. Co. v. Galloway Woman's
College, 81 S. W. ( 2d} 837
In re Allis Estate. 101 N. W. 365
In re Bankers Trust Co. 193 N. Y. S. 916
In re Langdon's Will. 277 N. Y. S. 581
Willis v. Brancher, 87 N. W. 185
"14. The entire element of speculation must be removed in investment of trust funds by a trustee.
In re Buhl, supra.
.
"15. It is the duty of a trustee to employ diligence and prudence
and what constitutes the diligence and prudence exacted d~pends upon
the attendant circumstances at the time the investment was made.
Brown v. French, supra
Mayer v. Mordecai, 7 Am. Rep. 26.
Statement read by Herbert Hoover at the Hearing Before San Jose
.
Superior Court, February 10, 1936.
"The trustees of Stanford University. in consequence ~f cert~m
financial policies, are now confronted with a grave prob~em m the. mvestments of the University endowment. That problem .1s the. ~oss1ble
protection of the endowment by investment of the fu~ds m. equities such
as common stocks and real estate instead of exclusively 1n bonds and
mortgages as hitherto. The trustees of sister universities ~ver the country are many of them already taking action to. protect. t~e1r endowments
by investments of at least part of their funds mto equities. The trustees
of Stanford are in need of some clarification of these powers to make
such investments.
"The problem has only recently arisen. For fifty years both prudence and wisdom have caused the trustees to invest the endowment
now amounting to some $24,000,000 in seasoned bonds and first mortgages. Not only has the original endowment been maintained intact but

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

65

entirely aside from new gifts the trustees have by wise investment increased the capital. Common stocks or real estate or other equities have
not been purchased because of the greater risks involved.
"The devaluation of the dollar, the widespread bank credit inflation
and the possible menace of currency inflation are the new factors with
which the trustees must deal. The theory of the devaluation of the
dollar is that it will increase prices of commodities. thus causing a rise
in the cost of living and necessitating an increase of salaries. The theory
also implies a transfer of values from the bond holder to the common
stock holder. The practical effect should be to increase the cost of operating the institution. In such case. if our income is to remain fixed, we
shall need either to employ less faculty or reduce the range of instruction or reduce the number of students.
"The bank credit inflation is a factor independent of devaluation
and has already caused a large drop in interest rates. More than twothirds of our investments are subject to call or mature in the next five
years. and if these interest rates continue we shall probably lose about
one-fourth of our endowment income. This would again necessitate
reducing the service which our institution gives to youth, even were
devaluation not in action.
"The question of currency inflation is one of constant discussion in
government and the press. and while not at the moment more than a
menace. it is one which cautious trusteeship should be in position to
meet. The record of similar institutions in Europe under currency inflation is before us, where their endowments are largely wiped out.
"Experience in similar occ~sions shows that common stocks and real
estate and other equities ultimately rise in value somewhat in proportion to the increase of devaluation or inflation. While common stocks,
real estate and other equities are subject to risk, yet this may be the
lesser risk than bonds and mortgages.
"The gravity of the matter is clear when we remember that Stanford
has trained over 15,000 yo.uth, a ·large part of them without means of
their own, and that a community of nearly ten thousand people are
largely dependent upon the institution.
"Whatever view we take of the situation, the trustees should have
the freedom to protect the endowment as best they can."

MEMORANDUM OPINION-IN THE SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY
OF SANTA CLARA- In the Matter of the Petition of The Board of
Trustees of the Leland Stanford University for a determination and
confirmation of its powers with respect to the investment of Trust
Funds.
"Petitioner herein seeks a judicial determination of its powers of
investment of trust funds, particularly with respect to the investment

66

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of such funds in debentures and shares of stock in corporations. The
proceeding is authorized by the provisions of Act 8701 , approved Febru·
ary 10, 1903 (Stat. 1903, p. 9).
. .
.
"These two questions are presented for determination here.
.
"1st: Are the petitioners forbidden by the express terms of the
trust, as now in force. to invest any of the trust funds in debentures or
stocks of corporations?
"2nd : If not so expressly forbidden. is the making ~f such inves~·
ments inhibited by anything in the nature of the trust itself'. or their
obligations or responsibilities as trustees of the trust properties?
"A careful examination of the grants. amendments and acts, bearing
upon these trusts, fails to disclose any definite pro~ibition of such in·
vestments; and I am of the opinion that the first question may confidently
be answered in the negative.
"The second question is approached with somewhat less confidence.
"While the general rule, laid down in this state. as well as in ~ost
other jurisdictions, with relation to the obligation of a trustee, requir~s
that he exercise only the same measure of diligence that a man of ordi.
nary prudence would be expected to exercise in the care of his own
property under the same circumstances, it would s.eem, on careful con·
sideration, that this statement fails to take into account the element of
speculation. A man of ordinary prudence might well be expected to
speculate, at times, with his own property. Indeed. most men do so.
But a trustee, by the very nature of his obligation, is inhibited from subjecting the trust fund to the risks of specula~ve enterpris~s. Because
of this principle, and perhaps stimulated by divers regulations enacted
for the guidance of investments by banks a~d other st~te·c?ntrolled
institutions. a wide-spread belief has grown m the public mmd . .t?at
trust funds may not properly be invested in other than public securities,
or well secured bonds, notes and mortgages. This view was examined
and discarded by the learned justice who wrote the opinion in Harvard
College, et all vs. Amory, more than an hundred years ago. A~d events
occurring in the financial world, during the present generation, ha~e
afforded many striking examples of the wisdom of Justice Putnam s
comments in that famous case. It may be conceded that in normal times,
a bond or secured obligation has a greater quality of security for invest·
ment than private corporation stocks or debentures. and is less subject
to fluctuation in value; but it is likewise true, as we have had recent
occasion to observe. that there are conditions under which even public
securities. as well as secured obligations of other kinds. suffer serious
depression in value. In such instances both income a~d capital a~e
jeopardized or lost. Experience has also shown us that investments m
shares of private corporations may. and often do, afford a greater meas·
ure of safety, combined with a larger income yield, than investments
in public securities or bonds in the same period. It would. therefore

·~

67

seem to be an unreasonable rule. to require a possibly unsafe invest·
ment. with little return. and exclude a safer, or equally safe one, pro·
ducing a greater return. And, particularly is this true of a trust whose
essential purpose would be defeated, if. the income from the trust funds
be withdrawn or substantially curtailed.
"A heavy burden of responsibility rests upon trustees, in the ad·
JDinistration of the trust funds. They are charged with the exercise of
the highest degree of good faith: while they are required to exercise
only the same degree of care, in investment, that a man of ordinary
prudence would be expected to exercise in the management of his own
property. under similar circumstances. they are, at the same time, forbidden to enter into any transactions wherein the element of speculation
is obviously present: and, finally, they are charged with the duty of so
managing the trust property as to accomplish, insofar as the same is
possible, the primary purposes for which the trust was created. Some
trusts are concerned principally with the integrity of the corpus of the
trust property-the income therefrom being of a secondary considera·
tion. It would be safe to say that a great majority of existing trusts are
of that character. But there are trusts whose existence depends upon
the income derived from the trust property, without which income the
real purpose of the trust would fail. Stanford University is one of the
latter character. The trust there created was for the primary purpose of,
not only establishing a school of higher education, but of maintaining
and continuously operating the same. The trust funds came into the
hands of the trustees for those purposes. Unless these funds can be made
to earn sufficient income to carry on the operation of the school, there
would be a total failure of the trust itself. The preservation of the corpus,
intact, without sufficient income, would be idle and meaningless. Vacant
study halls and a deserted campus would not constitute a university.
It is the duty of these trustees to maintain the corpus of the trust prop·
erties intact. if they can do so, without suspending or seriously curtailing
the operation of the university; but, in the final analysis, it is their
primary duty to see to it that the educational work is carried on as de·
signed by the founders of the trust.
·
"In the case of In Re: Buhl's Estate, 178, N . W. 651, the Court, in
dealing with a trust, which was one of that character wherein the pres·
ervation of the corpus was the primary consideration, and the income a
secondary one, held that the trustees might properly make an investment
of trust funds in dividend-paying stock and interest-paying bonds of
a private corporation, when such corporation has acquired. by reason
of its property and the prudent management of its affairs for a consid·
erable period of time, such a reputation for permanence and stability as
to command universal confidence. The Court there, in a modified form,
followed the Massachusetts rule, first laid down in the Harvard College
case. cited supra. If this measure of the power of the trustees be the
proper one in the case of such a class of trusts-and so it seems to be--

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

68

69

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

there should be no hesitancy in applying it to the character of trust here
under consideration. And this would appear to apply with greater
reason in times when depressed monetary values and defaulted or
repudiated public commitments have raised grave dou~ts in t~~ minds
of prudent business men of the ultimate safety of public securities. To
quote from Justice Putnam, in the Harvard College ca~e, . .
" 'There is one consideration much in favor of investing in the
stock of private corporations. They are amenable to the law. The
stockholder may pursue them, and compel them or their officers to
do justice. But the government can only be supplicated.'
"The examination of many other authorities and opinions, whose
citation need not be made here, has served to confirm these views on
the subject in hand.
"I am of the opinion that the petitioners may lawfully and properly
make investment from trust funds coming to their hands, in bonds,
debentures and shares of stock of private corporations which are wellmanaged, and have enjoyed for a considerable period of time such a
reputation for permanence and stability that they comman.d th~ gene~al
confidence of careful and intelligent investors: and may likewise so invest in other generally recognized forms of investment providing and
adequate rate of interest and affording reasonable assuranc~ of stable
values. This is not intended to exclude other powers of investment
heretofore exercised or decreed to them.
"The Court's decree will be entered in accordance herewith.''
(Signed) WM. F. JAMES
Presiding Judge
Dated Feb. 25, 1936
From DECREE DETERMINING AND CONFIRMING THE
POWERS OF THE TRUSTEES WITH RESPECT TO THE
INVESTMENT OF TRUST FUNDS (In the Matter of the Petition
of THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF LELAND STANFORD
JUNIOR UNIVERSITY).

--------

"NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAID PETITION IS HEREBY
GRANTED, AND IT IS HEREBY DETERMINED AND
DECREED
" (a) that it is the duty of the petitioning trustees, and their successors, to invest and reinvest the trust funds in their hands for the
benefit of said University:
" ( b) that it is at times difficult and at other times i.~poss~ble. to
invest trust funds in satisfactory bonds or bonded securities yielding
a satisfactory rate of interest:
" ( c) that from time to time said trustees have on hand l~~e
amounts of trust funds to be invested or reinvested: and that it is
essential to the continued existence and maintenance of said Univer-

sity in accordance with the objects of the Founding Grant that said trust
funds be so invested as to earn a satisfactory rate of interest;
" ( d) that new conditions found by said trustees to exist are such
that they cannot invest said trust funds in satisfactory bonds, bonded
securities, real estate, improvements on real estate, or in loans on real
estate producing an adequate rate of interest and affording reasonable
assurance of stable values:
" ( e) that it is the opinion of said trustees that such conditions
require, in order that said trustees may fully carry out the objects of the
Founding Grant, that said trust funds, or a portion thereof, be invested
in the debentures and shares of stock of well managed corporations
which have enjoyed for a considerable period of time such a reputation
for permanence and stability that they command general confidence and
cause careful and intelligent persons familiar with such matters to
commonly invest their own money in them as a permanent investment, or
in some other generally recognized form of investment providing an
adequate rate of interest and affording reasonable assurance of stable
values:
" ( f) that it is the opinion of said trustees that under such conditions the investment of said trust funds in such debentures and shares
of stock would be to the greater benefit of said University, in point of
safety, stability and yield, than the investment thereof in other forms
of investment more susceptible to the depressing effect of current conditions; and ·
" ( g) that the said trustees have the power, acting in the prudent
and faithful exercise of their discretion and as new conditions may from
time to time require, in order that said trustees may fully carry out the
objects of the Founding Grant, to invest trust funds held by them under
the Founding Grant, as amended, in such debentures or in such shares
of stock, in bonds, bonded securities, real estate, improvements on real
estate, in loans upon the security of real estate, or upon any other
security satisfactory to such trustees, or in any other generally recognized form of investment providing an adequate rate of interest and
affording reasonable assurance of stable values: and
"h" that the notice of the filing and of the hearing of the petition
was duly given for the time and in the manner prescribed in that certain
Act of the Legislature of California, approved February 10, 1903, referred to in paragraph XXII of the petition, and in the manner directed
by the aforesaid order of January 22, 1936.
"Done in open court this 27th day of February, 1936."
WILLIAM F. JAMES

Presiding Judge of the Superior Court
Referred to Committee on Segregation.
·
For Financial Report see special appendix.
All exhibits ref erred to are on file in the Grand Lodge office.

G

........---·

·-·-·........

.. ·······2.175 27 ,200

- ·-

85,000

440.250

138,500

42,000
125,875

5,000

10,000

34,000
10.000

10,000

F

1951

80,000
75
10,000

G

4.125 110.000

4,025

100

F

1955
G

42,600
18,300

174,800 295,900

·······-- --········

····-··-- 100,000
16,200 35,000

10,100
13,500

135,000
···-··-·- 100,000

F

1957

147,500

100.000

7,500

40,000

G

1958

30.000

G

2,200 240,000

...._...,. ······-····
··-··· ··--···--·

10.000
··-···· 100.000

2,200

·····-· 100,000

F

1959

10.000

980,000

10,000

300
5,000

90,000

G

3,250 1.095,300

750

2,500

F

1960

175,000
175.000

TOCala -····--·--- - 15.000

l'.4%

1'.4%

Bulldin9 FUDd --·-·-·--·..·
Summer Camp ReHrYe........
Scholanhlp FWld ----·Entertainment Fund -·-··
Flint Annuity -·-·····--····-····
Flint Trust l'lllld......·-····-·····
Perl.De FUDd ---··-·-··········
Verbar9 Fund ---···-···-Luckenbach FUDd -----··
Wadlel9h Fund - · · - -···
Endo-ent Fund -·----··· 85,000

Maaonlc Hom. . GeneraL.•.•
Monthly Grant FancL_,_,_

llMB4 todqe --····-······

1950

1949

10,000

10,000

2'.4%

59-58

593,000

318,500

10.500

214,000
50,000

2'11.3

62-59

375,000

265,000

10,000

100.000

2¥2%

69-84

310,500

10,000
290,500

4,000

6,000

2~%

70-85

480,000

480,000

2¥2%

72-87

July 31, 1949

I.ODO

I.ODO

2fa%

1980

628,800

145..450

18,200

52.100
141,375

135,000
80.000
2,575
10,000
34,000
10.100

F

2,057,400

5.000
10,000
43,600
43,800
10.000
1,000
36,000
10,000
1.512.700

170,000
100,000
300
ll5,000

G

A

160.000
165,000

900

800

:D

E

628,800

145.450
18.200

52.100
141.375

34.000
10,100

135,000
80,000
2.575
10,000

F

5,000

4.884.600

625,000
230,000
2.875
125,000
34,000
30,600
10,000
95,700
189,175
20,000
1,000
52,200
20.000

'l'....

2,057,400

l,512,700
38,000
10,000

l.000

5,000
10,000
43.800
43,800
10,000

170,000
100,000
300
115,000

G

a.m.oae

Totala

s.ooo

5,000

5,000

E

BONDS

100,000

100,000

G

1981

5.000

UNITED STATES TREASURIES BY MATURITIES AND SAVINGS

S,000 41,500

···-·· ..........

1.000
8.000

G

2.175 17,200
......... 1,000

F

1954

Note: Maturity value shown in dollars.

Totals

....

Perl.De Fund -········-···
--···I.ODO
Verbmq Fund ·····-····
Endo-ent FUDd ·-- 5,000 30,500
Luckenbach Fund
........
_
Wadlel9h Fund - ·····-· ........

Fllnt AJmllity -···-·····Fllnt Trust Fund..........

-··-

Gr1111d Lod9e ····-···- -·-- 10,000
Naaolllc: Homes -••OU
Monthly Grcmt Fund..
Bulld!Jl9 Fund ---··Summer Camp
Reaer'H ---···-·······
Scholarship Fund ....
Entertainment FUDd_

E

1953

Note: Maturity value shown in dollars.

UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS
Detail ·of Maturity Series E-F-G
July 31, 1949

72

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY

1945

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Eighth Annual
Report as your Grand Secretary.
We have again been fortunate in having the complete cooperation
of the Secretaries of the Lodges and of the staff with the result that a
very satisfactory year's work has been accomplished.
GENERAL OFFICES

At the last Communication of Grand Lodge we requested and received an appropriation of $5,000.00 for the purpose of rearranging,
remodelling and redecorating the Grand Lodge Offices. Plans were
prepared and submitted to the Grand Master. With his approval we
undertook the work during the past summer, and it is now completed
and operating efficiently. The total cost was $4,894.05.
DUPLICATE CHARTER

Georgetown Lodge No. 25 lost its original charter in a disastrous
flre and requested the issuance of a duplicate. The Grand Master ap·
proved this, and at his direction we had an exact.duplicate of the early
charter engrossed. This made it possible to have reproductions made
so that we are now in a position to issue actual duplicates of early
charters in other cases of disaster.
We cannot again too strongly urge that every Lodge have its
original charter photostated.
ENDOWMENT FUND OVERPAYMENT

A.F.E. Irwin Lodge No. 645 in remitting contributions received for
the Endowment Fund forwarded $170.00 in excess of contributions
collected. The Lodge did not immediately detect the error, and it was
not until after the close of the flscal year that the Lodge called it to the
attention of the Grand Secretary and requested a return of the excess
payment.
The Grand Secretary is of the opinion that he has no authority to
withdraw funds from the Endowment Fund for the purpose of correcting
the error. He does, however, believe the money should be returned to
the Lodge, and he, therefore, asks the authority of Grand Lodge to
reimburse the Lodge in the amount of $170.00 during the 1:Urrent fiscal
year.
·
MEMBERSHIP

1945
New Lodges Formed ....-........................
2
Initiated - -.......- ...- ....................- ..... 14.281
Passed ___.........___............................ 13,272
Raised ......- ............................................... 12,833
Affiliated ·--------·-·-··-..............._,___ l,820

1946
4
14,920
13.586
12,895
1,944

1947
3
13.930
13,968

14.009
2,111

73

1948
6
10,871
11.211
11.699
1,947

1949

3

9,851
9,867
10,088
1.950

1946
1947
1948
1949
Gained by Error ........................................
14
19
6
12
21
Reinstated --····-·-········-···········-··········--·..
997
773
643
455
388
Withdrawn ................................................ 1.172
1.314
1.536
1.445
1.609
Suspended for Non-Payment of Dues......
417
367
396
545
647
Suspended or Expelled for cause..............
24
12
21
25
20
· Loss by Error ............................................
13
4
11
8
5
Died -·--·················-··-··-··-························· 2,421
2,554
2,640
2,809
2,821
NUIDber of lVleznbers on July 31....- .....150,368 161.752 173,917 183,198 190,543
Dues Remitted ............................................ 2.668
2,230
2,114
2,158
2,361
Gain ---·-····-----·-······-··············----·-··- 11,630 11.384 12,165
9,281
7,345
Number of Lodges ....................................
583
587
590
596
599
WESTCHESTER LODGE U. D.

Westchester Lodge U. D. was instituted June 18, 1949, just six
weeks before the close of the fiscal year. Due to its brief existence I
recommended to the Grand Master that the Lodge be not required to
pay the per capita tax, which recommen·dation was approved by him.
NEW LODGES

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
Santa Ynez Valley Lodge U.D., located at Los Olivos. Dispensation
granted Dece~ber 1, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on January 22,
1949, at Los Olivos, Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Grand Master
officiating.
'
. ~he charter membership is as follows: Charles Wolford Jessup,
V1rg1l Truman Sechler, Hal Willis Hamm, William Neilson Downs
Frederick Louis Mattei, George Edward Rodom, Lester Walter Hous~
ton, Forrest Dueane Guynn, Leo L. Ross. Emmett DeTrott, Chester
Allen Hollister, Robert Arnold Rohan, Bernard Benjamin Davis, Perkins Stearns Emery, Carl Clyde Campbell, John Shelby Downs, Henry
Geor_ge Pe~ersen, Henry Gus Hanze, Robert Joseph Campbell, Walter
Edwm Twist, Charles Henry Foss, Clarence Milton Reed and William
Laine Davis.
Rosemead Lodge U .D., located at_Rosemead. Dispensation granted
December 28, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on January 29, 1949,
at Alhambra, Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Grand Master
officiating.
'
The charter membership is as follows; Harry Darius Leonard
John Edwin Butters, Herbert Merle Langton, Albert Henry Larkin:
Don Otho Simmons, Bert William Pickens, Melvin Lee Barnett, William Herbert Kelly. Norman Harry Leonard, Joseph Charles Wilt,
Athelbert Houston Walker, Chauncey Nippert Burr, Herbert Ross
Sawtelle. Alvin Owen Meredith, Noah Albert Stump, Samuel Dewey
Sewell. George Henry Delk, Lyle Lake Temple, Glenn Alliston Smith

74

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

and Charles Sampson Gump.
Westchester Lodge U.D .. located at Los Angeles, Dispensation
granted June 18, 1949. The Lodge was instituted on June 18, 1949,
at Los Angeles, Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Grand Master
officiating,.
The charter membership is as follows: Herbert Coy Pleasant, James
Lowell Miles. David Richard White, Edward John Babson, John
Daniel Bennet, Harold Karl Bouvier, Donald Orlando Bridgewater,
Norman Meredith Brown, James Reynolds Clark, James Fred Davidson,
Thomas John Dekker, Warren Jefferson Dowell, Richard Charles
Earnest, Jack Richard Gouldstone Louis Melvin Hall. Walter William
Hawk, John Franklyn Houghtaling, Frank Albert Kember, Henry
Frederick Mandt, Custer Ambrose Morrow, Rolland Kenneth Nichols,
Isadore Rosenblatt, Frederick James Shafer, and Elmer Vivian.
Orinda Lodge U.D.• located at Orinda. Dispensation granted September 28, 1949. The Lodge was instituted on September 28, 1949,
at Walnut Creek; Most Worshipful .Edward H. Siems, Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Sherer Griffis Culver, Sigurd
Groennings, Andrew Catherall, Joseph Frederick Conley, Ray Edward
Wadsworth, George Joseph Matey, M. Blaine DeLeshe, Horace Watts
Pillsbury, William Joseph Seroy, Walter Spencer Nicklas, Norman
Flint Coates, Wilbur Douglas Crosby, W mil Ellis Wickman, William
Stuart Henderson, Godfrey Hensel Bender, Laurence Wayne Lytton,
George Henry Hauerken, Henry William Moller, Robert Lillbum
Bernard, Frederic Goodrich Bechner, Paul Stanley Booth, Gilbert
Earle. Eugene Henry Burkett and Jacob Lawson Bowers.
El Cerrito Lodge U.D., located at El Cerrito. Dispensation granted
September 29, 1949. The Lodge was instituted on September 29, 1949,
at Richmond, Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Gene Cover Otwell, Joseph
Earl Van Etten, John Lowe Wixon, Jr., James Kelman, Ralph Payson
Partridge, Oscar Nysender Anderson, Robert Henry Ballance, Otto
John Becker, Carl Jerome Crawford, Lewis Edward Duckworth, Thomas
Walter Fullerton, William Edward Harris, George Raymond King,
Austin Favil Luttropp, Glen Moore, Arthur Erving Pace, Dominic
Rolando, Ira Earle Scott, Thomas Cornelius Smith, Joe Martyn Turner,
Laurence. Albert Watkins, Albert Ray Wertz and Harry Bailey West.

Increasing fee: Los Gatos Lodge No. 292, to $300.00; Mount Vernon
Lodge No. 517, to $312.50: Anaheim Lodge No. 207, to $325.00.
Fixing fee: Sacramento Lodge No. 40, at $500.00.
Rescinding fee: Fresno Lodge No. 247.

LIPE MEMBERSHIPS

· The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:

75

DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Washington Lodge No. 20: Russian River Lodge No. 181: Northern Light Lodge No. 190; Reading Lodge No. 254: Selma Lodge No
277: San Miguel Lodge No. 285: Redlands Lodge No. 300: Reedley
Lodge No. 304: San Jacinto Lodge .No. 338: Kerman Lodge No. 420:
Maricopa Lodge No. 434: Torrance Lodge No. 447: Mt. Diablo Lodge
No. 448: Grizzly Lodge No. 601: Glassell Park Lodge No. 605: A.F.E.
Irwin Lodge No. 645.
·
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months:
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence:
Golden Gate No. 30: Oakland No. 188: Santa Ana No. 241; Adin
No. 250: Piedmo.n t No. 521.
Special permission for the conferring of a Third Degree:
Honolulu Lodge No. 409: Clovis Lodge No. 417; Golden Rule Lodge
No. 479; Altadena Lodge No. 678.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place:
Georgetown No. 25 in the 1.0.0.F. Hall: North East No. 266 in
the Hall of Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235: Silver Gate No. 296 in the
Hall of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657 and in the Hall of Normal
Heights Lodge No. 632: Delano No. 309 in the Bakersfield Masonic
Temple: Pacific Grove No. 331 in the Hall of Carmel Lodge No. 680:
Charity No. 362 in the Scottish Rite Auditorium, San Jose: Blythe No.
473 in a separate building of Blythe High School; Temblor No. 477 in
the Taft Masonic Temple: Menlo Park No. 651 in Palo Alto Masonic
Temple.
DISPENSATIONS DENIED

To form a new Lodge to be known as Kyushu Lodge in the City
of Fukuoka, Japan.
·
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Hiram Lodge No. 43, to $75.00: Plumas Lodge No.
60, to $125.00: Pajaro Lodge No. 110, to $75.00: Sincerity Lodge No.
132, to $100.00: Mountain View Lodge No. 194, to $75.00; Olive

77

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Branch Lodge No. 269, to $75.00: Oakdale Lodge No. 275, to $75.00:
Valle de France Lodge No. 329, to $100.00: Fruitvale Lodge No. 336,
to $125.00: Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361, to $75.00: Rockridge Lodge No.
468, to $125.00; Victory Lodge No. 474, to $100.00; Ionic Lodge No.
520, to $125.00: Elmhurst Lodge No. 610, to $100.00; La Brea Lodge
No. 650, to $100.00.
Decreasing fees: Kaweah Lodge No. 665, to $50.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Hiram Lodge No. 43, to $10.00; Fruitvale
Lodge No. 336, to $25.00: Rockridge Lodge No. 468, to $10.00; Elm.burst Lodge No. 610, to $10.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Sincerity Lodge No. 132, to $5.00.
Increasing dues: Western Star Lodge No. 2, to $12.00: Tehama
Lodge No. 3, to $12.00: Corinthian Lodge No. 9, to $12.00: San Jose
Lodge No. 10, to $12.00: Nevada Lodge No. 13, to $12.00: Eureka
Lodge No. 16, to $12.00: Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18, to $12.00:
Washington Lodge No. 20, to $12.00: Madison Lodge No. 23, to $12.00;
Mariposa Lodge No. 24, to $12.00; Georgetown Lodge No. 25, to $12.00:
El · Dorado Lodge No. 26, to $12.00: Trinity Lodge No. 27, to $12.00:
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32, to $12.00; Ophir Lodge No. 33, to $12.00:
Howard Lodge No. 37, to $12.00; Sacramento Lodge No. 40, to $12.00;
Hiram Lodge No. 43, to $12.00: Crescent Lodge No. 45, to $12.00:
Forbestown Lodge No. 50, to $12.00; Illinoistown Lodge No. 51, to
$12.00: Volcano Lodge No. 56, to $12.00: Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57,
to $12.00; Union Lodge No. 58, to $12.00; Natoma Lodge No. 64,
to $12.00; Amador Lodge No. 65, to $12.00: Forest Lodge No. 66,
to $12.00; Calaveras Lodge No. 78, to $12.00; Ione Lodge No. 80,
to $12.00; Yolo Lodge No. 81, to $12.00: Naval Lodge No. 87, to
$12.00: Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89, to $12.00; North Star Lodge No.
91, to $12.00; St. Helena Lodge No. 93, to $15.00; Henry Clay
Lodge No. 95, to $12.00; Hornitos Lodge No. 98, to $12.00; Clay
Lodge No. 101, to $12.00; Arcata Lodge No. 106, to $12.00; Summit
Lodge No. 112, to $12.00: Concord Lodge No. 117, to $12.00; LaFayette
Lodge No. 126, to $12.00; Nicolaus Lodge No. 129, to $12.00; Wood.bridge Lodge No. 131, to $12.00; Sincerity Lodge No. 132, to $12.00:
Valley Lodge No. 135, to $12.00; Curtis Lodge No. 140, to $12.00;
Grafton Lodge No. 141, to $12.00; Eel River Lodge No. 147, to $12.00;
Woodland Lodge No. 156, to $12.00; Harmony Lodge No. 164, to
$12.00; Elk Grove Lodge No. 173, to $12.00; Drytown Lodge No. 174,
to $12.00: Phoenix Lodge No. 178, to $12.00; Mendocino Lodge No. 179,
to $12.00; Petaluma Lodge No. 180, to $12.00; Clear Lake Lodge No.
183, to $12.00; Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184, to $12.00; Evening Star
Lodge No. 186, to $12.00; Northern Light Lodge No. 190, to $12.00;
Ferndale Lodge No. 193, to $12.00: Mountain View Lodge No. 194,
to $12.00; San Simeon Lodge No. 196, to $12.00: Hartley Lodge No.

199, to $12.00; Truckee Lodge No. 200, to $12.00; Silveyville Lodge No.
201. to $f2.00; Confidence Lodge No. 203, to $12.00: Salinas Lodge
No. 204, to $12.00: Stanislaus Lodge No. 206, to $12.00; Anaheim Lodge
No. 207, to $12.00; Friendship Lodge No. 210, to $12.00: Monterey
Lodge No. 217, to $15.00: Downey Lodge No. 220, to $12.00; Inyo
Lodge No. 221, to $12.00: Athens Lodge No. 228, to $12.00: Solano
Lodge No. 229, to $12.00; Covelo Lodge No. 231, to $12.00; Janesville
Lodge No. 232, to $12.00; Calistoga Lodge No. 233, to $12.00; Hope
Lodge No. 234, to $12.00; Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236, to $12.00; Guada..
lupe Lodge No. 237, to $12.00; Alcatraz Lodge No. 2H, to $12.00:
Fre~no Lodge No. 247, to $12.00; Landmark Lodge No. 253, to $12.00;
Lodi Lodge No. 256, to $12.00; Penrhyn Lodge No. 258, to $12.00; Or..
land Lodge No. 265, to $12.00; North East Lodge No. 266, to $12.00;
Galt Lodge No. 267, to $12.00: Durant Lodge No. 268, to $12.00; Olive
Branch Lodge No. 269, to $15.00; Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271, to
$12.00: Oakdale Lodge No. 275, to $12.00: Callayomi Lodge No. 282,
to $12.00; South West Lodge No. 283, to $12.00; San Miguel
Lodge No. 285, to $12.00; East Gate Lodge No. 290, to $12.00:
Traver Lodge No. 294, to $12.00; Llberty Lodge No. 299, to $12.00;
Redlands Lodge No. 300, to $12.00; Ontario Lodge No. 301, to
$12.00; Ashlar Lodge No. 306, to $12.00; Sisson Lodge No. 310,
to $12.00; Tehachapi Lodge No. 313, to $12.00; Norwalk Lodge No.
315, to $12.00: Fallbrook Lodge No. 317, to $12.00; Emmanuel Lodge
No. 318, to $12.00; Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, to $12.00; South Gate
Lodge No. 320, to $12.00: Alisal Lodge No. 321. to $12.00; Alhambra
Lodge No. 322, to $12.00; Whittier Lodge No. 323, to $12.00; Consuelo
Lodge No. 325, to $12.00; Long Beach Lodge No. 327, to $12.00; Pacific
Grove Lodge No. 331, to $12.00; Alta Lodge No. 333, to $12.00; Covina
Lo~ge No. 334, to $12.00: Carquinez Lodge No. 337, to $12.00; San
Jacmto Lodge No. 338, to $12.00; San Fernando Lodge No. 343, to
$12.00; Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, to $12.00: McKinley Lodge No. 347
to $12.00; San Bernardino Lodge No. 348, to $12.00; Buena Park Lodg~
No. 357, to $12.00; Loyalton Lodge No. 359, to $12.00; Fort Bragg
Lodge No. 361, to $12.00: Charity Lodge No. 362, to $12.00; Las Pal..
mas ~dge No. 366, to $12.00; Gardena Lodge No. 372, to $12.00:
A:tes1a Lodge No. 377, to $12.00: Oceanside Lodge No. 381, to $12.00;
Dinuba Lodge No. 385, to $12.00; Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, to
$12.00: East Belt ~dge No. 391, to $12.00: West Lake Lodge No. 392,
to $12.00; Fraternity Lodge No. 399, to $12.00; Perris Lodge No 411
to $12.00; A~lington Lodge No. 414, to $12.00; Clovis Lodge No. 7, t~
$12.00; Elysian Lodge No. 418, to $12.00; Uplands Lodge No. 419, to
$12.00; Kerman Lodge No. 420, to $12.00: York Lodge No. 423, to
$12.00; Exeter Lodge No. 424, to $12.00; Chino Valley Lodge No 427
to $12.00; McCloud Lodge No. 430, to $12.00: Alpha Lodge No. 4Jl, t~

1"i

78

PROCEEDINGS .OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$12.00; Hammonton Lodge No. 433, to $12.00: Maricopa Lodge No.
434, to $12.00; Claremont Lodge No. 436, to $12.00: Coronado Lodge
No. 441, to $12.00; Blackmer Lodge No. 442, to $12.00; La Puente Lodge
No. 446, to $12.00: Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, to $12.00; Morgan Hill
. Lodge No. 463, to $12.00: Alta Vista Lodge No. 464, to $15.00: Center
Lodge No. 465, to $12.00; Rockridge Lodge No. 468, to $15.00; Blythe
Lodge No. 473, to $12.00: Golden Rule Lodge No. 479, to $12.00:
Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482, to $15.00: Vallejo Lodge No. 487,
to $12.00: Capital City Lodge No. 499, to $12.00; Westwood Lodge
No. 501, to $12.00; Harbor Lodge No. 502. to $12.00; Point Lodge No.
503, to $12.00; Seaside Lodge No. 504, to $12.00; Mount Olive Lodge
No. 506, to $12.00; El Segundo Lodge No. 507. to $12.00; Joppa Lodge
No. 508, to $12.00: Cupertino Lodge No. 510, to $12.00; Sunnyvale
Lodge No.' 511, to $12.00: Vermont Square Lodge No. 515, to $12.00;
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517, to $15.00: Ionic Lodge No. 520, to
$15.00: Sunrise Lodge No. 522, to $12.00; Bellflower Lodge No. 523, to
$12.00; Catalina Island Lodge No. 524, to $15.00: Covenant Lodge No.
527, to $12.00: Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, to $12.00; Smyrna Lodge
No. 532, to $12.00; Utopia Lodge No. 537, to $12.00: Queen Beach
Lodge No. 540, to $12.00; Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541, to
$12.00: Lankershim Lodge No. 542, to $12.00: Justice Lodge No. 549,
to $15.00; White Pine Lodge No. 555, to $12.00: Craftsmen No. 559,
to $12.00: East San Diego Lodge No. 561, to $12.00: South Park Lodge
No. 563, to $12.00: Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571, to $12.00: S. W.
Hackett Lodge No. 574; to $12.00; Progressive Lodge No. 578, to
$12.00: Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, to $12.00: Rialto Lodge
No. 582. to $12.00: All States Lodge No. 593, to $12.00; Service Lodge
No. 594, to $12.00: Grizzly Lodge No. 601, to $12.00: Glassell Park
Lodge No. 605, to $12.00; Granada Lodge No. 608, to $12.00: Provident
Lodge No. 609, to $12.00: Canoga Lodge No. 611, to $12.00; Three Pillars Lodge No. 613, to $12.00; Hemet Lodge No. 615, to $12.00: R. E.
Dolley Lodge No. 616, to $12.00: Neptune Lodge No. 619, to $12.00:
The Gardens Lodge No. 621 , to $12.00: Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625,
to $12.00: Chula Vista Lodge No. 626, to $12.00; Truth Lodge No. 628,
to $15.00; Benevolence Lodge No. 631, to $15.00: Normal Heights
Lodge No. 632, to $12.00; Victorville Lodge No. 634. to $12.00: Damas~
cus Lodge No. 648, to $12.00: Florence Lodge No. 649, to $12.00:
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652, to $12.00; Fontana Lodge No. 653, to
$12.00; Jordan Lodge No. 654, to $12.00; Malta Lodge No. 661, to
$12.00: Reseda Lodge No. 666, to $12.00; John P. Jarman Lodge No.
669, to $12.00: Greenleaf Lodge No. 670, to $12.00: San Clemente
Lodge No. 671. to $12.00: Willow Glen Lodge No. 676, to $12.00:
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679. to $12.00: Carmel Lodge No. 680, to
$12.00; Barstow Lodge No. 682. to $12.00: Redwood Empire Lodge No.

683, to $12.00: Trona Lodge No. 684, to $12.00: Oildale Lodge No. 688,
to $15.00; Pohona l:°dge No. 689, to $12.00: Travelers Lodge No. 692,
to $12.00: Palm Sprmgs Lodge No. 693, to $15.00· Ponderosa U D t 0
$12.00.
•
. .•

79

Changing date of st~ted meetings: Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, George~
town Lodge No. 25: Hiram Lodge No. 43: Guadalupe Lodge No 237·
Hanford L:>dge No. 279: Lodge le Progres No. 371: Honolulu Lodg;
No. 409; Lincoln Lodge No. 470; American Lodge No ..t75. Cl
· "I • arence
·h L d N
F . Smit
o ge o. 482: Euclid Lodge No. 519: Fairview Lodge No
629: Trona Lodge No. 684.
·
~hanging time of stated meetings: William D. Stephens Lodge No.

698

Providing for holiday meetings: American Lodge No. 475: Kaweah
Lodge No. 665.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Gold Hill Lodge No 32· Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235: Alturas Lodge No. 248: North E~st Lodge
No. 266; Madera Lodge No. 280: Whittier Lodge No. 323: Palms Lodge
No. 512: Valley Forge Lodge No. 587; Bixby Knolls Lodge U D.
Ponderosa Lodge iU.D.: Santa Ynez Valley Lodge U.D.: Rosem.ead
Lodge U.D.: Westchester Lodge U.D.: Orinda Lodge U.D.: El Cerrito
Lodge U.D.
Miscellaneous: Hiram Lodge No. 43: Forbestown Lodge No. 50:
Inglewood Lodge No. 421.
RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237: Paso Robles Lodge No. 286: Lincoln Lodge
No. 470; Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482: El Segundo Lodge No 507·
Euclid Lodge No. 519; La Brea Lodge No. 650: Henry Knox Lodg~ No'
662: Rosemead Lodge U.D. .
·
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 671-Petition for restoration. A member of Piedmont Lodge No
521. Expelled October 7, 1930.
'
No. 688-Petition for restoration. A member of San Francisco Lodge
No. 360. Expelled April 6, 1931.
No. 705-Petition for restoration. A member of Monterey Lodge No
217. Expelled August 5, 1931.
·
No. 840-Petition for restoration. A member of Long Beach Lodge
No. 327. Expelled September 6, 1934.
No. 1043-Petition for restoration. A member of Union Lodge No. 58.
Expelled August 2, 1944.
No. 1054-Petition for restoration. A member of Honolulu Lodge No
409. Expelled January 8. 1945.
·

80

81

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. 1087-( Retrial) A member of Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Acquitted October 7, 1946.
No. 1127-Restored by Lodge. A member of Santa Barhara Lodge No.
192. Suspended January 8, 1948.
No. 1129-Petition for restoration. A member of Bay City Lodge No.
526. Expelled February 5, 1948.
No. 1156-A member of Pyramid Lodge No. 562. Suspended October
5, 1948.
No. 1157-A member of Downey Lodge No. 220. Suspended October
7. 1948.
No. 1158-A member of Justice Lodge No. 549. Expelled November
1, 1948.
No. 1159-A member of Occidental Lodge No. 22. Expelled Decemb~r
6. 1948.
No. 1160-A member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382. Expelled
December 6. 1948.
No. 1161-A member of a Lodge in Illinois. Suspended November 2,
1948.
No. 1162-A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612. Acquitted December 7, 1948.
No. 1163-A member of Chico Lodge No. 111. Reprimand September
14, 1948.
No. 1164-A member of Hesperian Lodge No. 264. Expelled January
3, 1949.
No. 1165-A member of Coronado Lodge No. 441. Acquitted Novem..
her 2, 1948.
No. 1166-A member of Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Acquitted February
1. 1949.
No. 1167-A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Acquitted February
.
1, 1949.
No. 1168-A member of Palisades Lodge No. 637. Suspended Febru..
ary 1. 1949.
No. 1169-A member of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568. Expelled
March 3, 1949.
No. 1170-A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Expelled
March 3, 1949.
No. 1171-A member of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580. Suspended February 14. 1949.
No. 1172-A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Expelled April 5,
1949.
No. 1173-A member of Hanford Lodge No. 279. Reprimand April
8, 1949.

No. 1174-A member of a Lodge in New Mexico. Acquitted December
9, 1948.
No. 1175-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expelled March
3, 1949.
No. 1176-A member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166. Reprimand May 4,
1949.
No. 1177-A member of Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422. Suspended June
6, 1949.
No. 1178-A member of Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38. Expelled June 7,
1949.
No. 11 79-A member of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348. Suspended
February 26. 1949.
No. 1180-A member of Guardian Lodge No. 596. Acquitted July 1,
1949.
No. 1181-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139. Expelled July 6, 1949.
No. 1182-A member of Vermont Square Lodge No. 515. Acquitted
June 7, 1949.
No. 1183-A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Suspended July 7, 1949.
No. 1184-A member of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202. Suspended August
2. 1949.
No. 1185-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Suspended July 1,
1949.
No. 1186-A member of Martinez Lodge No. 41. Expelled September
1, 1949.
No. 1187-A member of Hanford Lodge No. 279. Expelled September
7. 1949.
No. 1188-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Acquitted September 12, 1949.
No. 1189-A member of Jordan Lodge No. 654. Expelled June 6, 1949.
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Adams, William Edwin, John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657.......... _June 8, 1899
Adolph, Jacob F., Truckee Lodge No. 200.......................___________ February 16•. 1899
Anderson, Franklin Pierce, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225.....................August 29, 1899
Armes, George Arthur, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30...............- .......April 2, 1898
Arthur, William Tell, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367...............- ..June 29, 1899
Baird, Guy B., South Pasadena Lodge No. 367................................July 9, 1897
Ball, Farlon Ford, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8........................................January 21, 1899
Barber, Charles, Alhambra Lodge No. 322.......................................April 4, 1893
Bassett, Bernard Silas, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479.........................May 20, 1899
Bauer, John J. R., Union Lodge No. 58.............---···---····-······---June 28, 1899
Beale, Francis F .. Willow Glen Lodge No. 676..- .......................... March 8, 1899
Beauchamp, Hiram Frederick, Oceanside Lodge No. 381...............September l, 1898
Berry, Edward Harvey, King David s Lodge No. 209.....................August 5, 1898
Bishop, Sherman A, Mission Lodge No. 169...................................August 6, 1898
0

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

83

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Bender, Edward Washington, Veritas Lodge No. 640....................November 5, 1880
Borkhelm, Abraham Lincoln, Marin Lodge No. 191..........-·-········December 3, 1898
Bradford, Hugh Barr, Elk Grove Lodge No. 173.............................December 27, 1898
Bragg, Arthur Virgil, South West Lodge No. 283...................- ......June 16, 1899
Brittain, John Randolph, South Gate Lodge No. 320................... _.January 17, 1899
Brown, David Wood, Harding Lodge No. 584...............................March 4, 1897
Buttle, Walter Charles, Con8dence Lodge No. 203.........................January 21, 1899
Clark, George Burt, Dunsmuir Lodge No. 291--·····--··---·--····--·····0ctober 29, 1898
Clintsman, Elbert Neill, Apollo Lodge No. 396................................0ctober 3, 1898
Coan, Thomas N., Nevada Lodge No. 13--····-·--·--····--···--·"---···..December 7, 1898
Cole, William Lester, Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295... - .....................March 15, 1899
Collins, Burton Vincent, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202........................ ~J>rll 21, 1899
Colter, Arthur Newton, California Lodge No. 1............................. November 10, 1898
Cooley, Edward Sedgewlck, Corinthian Lodge No. 9... _ ......- ......March 28, 1899
Cordano, G. B., Speranza ltallana Lodge No. 219...........................1898
Corder, Arthur Elmer, Oakland Lod_ge No. 188......- ......- .............. 0ctober 8, 1898
Comish, Herbert Lemuel, Southern California Lodge No. 278.......July 26, 1899
Covell, Elbert Allen, Woodbridge Lodge No. 131...........................September 16, 1899
Coward, John Robert, Oceanside Lodge No. 381... .........................April 7, 1899
Crabtree, Robert R., Sunset Lodge No. 352..·-··········-·······.......- .....August 17. 1899
Crandall, Arthur L.. Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458...........-·····----June 8, 1899
Crandall, Shannon, So. California Lodge No. 278...........................June 16, 1899
Deichmiller, Dr. Conrad, Oriental Lodge No. 144..- ......................March 23, 1897
Dole, Arthur Macdonald, Pomona Lodge No. 246...........................March 30, 1899
Donnan, Lyman Lee, Redlands Lodge No. 300.......- .......................June 2, 1894
Dougherty, William Emmett, Azusa Lodge No. 305 .......................February 15, 1899
Dryselius, Erland, Occidental Lodge No. 22....................................July 14, 1899
Dupuy, Frank S., Wilmington Lod~e N~. 198................................ 0ctober 23, 1895
Eichelberger, Harry Martin, So. Cahforrua Lodge No. 278............June 30, 1899
Ellsworth, Charles Henry, Union Lodge No. 58.............................. May 13, 1899
Fishback, William Murphy, Tehama Lodge No. 3..........................0ctober 14, 1898
Fitzgerald, George R., Hartley Lodge No. 199................................ September 17, 1898
Fletcher, Richard Deleon, Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517.............May 5, 1899
Foute, Albert Pike, Libertas Lodge No. 466..................................... ~y 25, 1893
Freeman, George Robert, Temescal Lodge No. 314....- .................. anuary 13, 1899
Furlong, Arthur Thomas, Mendocino Lodge No. 179..................... arch 3, 1899
Gammell, Charles, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241..................................June 6, 1899
Gaylord, Robert Brainerd, P.G.M., Oakland Lodge No. 188..........March 18, 1899
George, Clarence T .• Sacramento Lodge No. 40....................- .......September 9, 1899
Goodfriend, Isidor, Fidelity Lodge No. 120________....................._.November 17, 1898
Graff, Bernard Martin, Mount Olive Lodge No. 506.......................May 23, 1899
Graham, James Thomas, Libertas Lodge No. 466..........................-November 14, 1898
Gray, James A .. Mission Lodge No. 169........................................... June 22, 1f98
Green, William Henry, Guardian Lodge No. 596 ........................... April 27, 899
Groves, Robert Henry, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.......................... July 16, 1898
Gwinn, Josph M., Carmelita Lodg_e_ No. 599..................................... September 18, 1897
Hale Charles K.. Mission Lodge No. 169........................................ November 9, 1898
Hall.' J. Herbert, Pasadena Lodge No. 272-------·--··--------···---···-Nov4er J4, 1898
Hamilton, Arthur Lincoln, Corona Lodge No. 324......................- ... July 8, 89
Hayward, Orie J., Sanger Lodge No. 316.......................................-~ 8. 1899
Heller, Charles Clinton, Carmel Lodge No. 680............................... ovember 23, 1898
Hess, Orlando Boyd, So. California Lodge No. 278.·-···--···--··---····t'arch 16, 1898
Higgins, Frank Lincoln, Yosemte Lodge No. 99... _.............. _. ___ 898
Hillman, Richard George, So. Pasadena Lodge No. 367................ March 16, 1899
Hoag Jonathan K.. Mission Lodge No. 169......................................March 30, 1898
Holm~n. George P., Hope Lodge No. 234........................................April 15, 1899
Holmes, George William, Capital City Lodge No. 499................... ~pril 11, 1899
Howard, James Wesley, Sacramento Lodge No. 40........................March 13, 1899
Huckeba, Louis Calhoun, Caledonia Lodge No. 486.......................January 28. 1899
Hughes, Edward Floyd, Sequoia Lodge No. 3-49.....................- .•• September 1, 1899

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Hutchison, Robert Allan, Kilauea Lodge No. 330............................0ctober 22. 1898
Hyde, Benjamin Franklin, Suisun Lodge No. 55•......- .....................Aprll 5, 1898
Ilgner, Charles William, Sacramento Lodge No. 40........................ 0ctober 21. 1898
Jamison, Allan Muir, Santa Monica Lodge No. 307........................July 16, 1895
Jansen. Hans Paulsen, Gold Hill Lodge No. 32................................ June 17, 1899
Johnson, Philip, Washington Lodge No. 20..................................... Aprll 11, 1895
Johnson, Swan P., Palestine Lodge No. 351..................................... May 20, 1899
Jones, Richard Girard, So. California Lodge No. 278...................•.. July 24, 1896
Jones. Thomas I .. Mission Lodge No. 169--·--···-·-·..········-.Aprll 2, 1898
Karr. Frank. San Pedro Lodge No. 332·--····"""······-··········-··-··--February 21, 1898
Keeble, William A .. West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373.................. September 8, 1899
Kennedy, William Homer, H!ghland Park Lodge No. 382............. July 25, 1898
Kerr, Charles, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481.................................... February 5, 1898
Kettell, Herbert, Pomona Lodge No. 246..........................................January 24, 1899
Kinghorn, Henry Patterson, Anchor Lodge No. 273......·-··········-··April 1. 1899
Kleinsorge, Frank B.. Union Lodge No. 58..•..•·-··························-· June 14. 1899
Knight, Isaac Allinson, Friendship Lodge No. 210...................._....February 23, 1899
Laird, William Franklin, Meudell Lodge No. 695..·--···-··········-·..Aprll 23, 1898
Lampton. Leon Eugene, East Gate Lodge No. 290....................... -.June 20, 1899
Lindsay, Alfred, Olive Branch Lodge No. 269............- ..................April 22. 1899
McFarland, Chauncey Luth, Evergreen Lodge No. 259.................May 26, 1899
McGowan, James Edwin, Pomona Lodge No. 246..........................Aprll 29, 1899
Mclane, Charles Lowr__y, Fresno Lodge No. 247.._......... ,...............Aprll 29, 1898
McNeil, Cary David, Temescal Lodge No. 314........................... _..Ayrll 24, 1899
McNulty, Charles Ra_ymond, Durant Lodge No. 268......................November 11, 1898
MacDonald, Lincoln Duncan, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481... ....... March 8, 1899
Main, Josiah, Hemet Lodge No. 615-................................................Aprll 18, 1897
'Malone, Augustine Charles, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389............. April 22, 1899
Manett, Scott Everett, Culver City Lodge No. 467..........................February 26, 1898
Mears, David Morris, Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458....................July 30, 1898
Menefee, Charles D., Covina Lodge No. 334...........- ...................... November 15. 1898
Metteer, Charles Franklin, Corinthian Lodge No. 9...............- .......AugUit 20, 1897
Middleton, Harry Lewis, Pasadena Lodge No. 272......................... November 28, 1898
Milan, Arthur M., Ramona Lodge No. 457.................................... July 21, 1899
'Miller, Charles Warren, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.......................Aprll 30, 1898
Miller, Frank Thomas, Oakland Lodge No. 188..............................0ctober 12, 1895
Miller, John Henry, Morning Star Lodge No. 68............................. December 15. 1898
Mitchell, Henry John, Naval Lodge No. 87..................................... July 13, 1899
Money, William Thomas Caleb, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225.............February H, 1899
Morganti, Avellino, Guadalupe Lodge No. 237................................July 17, 1899
Mueller, Oscar Charles, So. California Lodge No. 278 .................... March 15, 1899
Neuls, George W .. Redlands Lodge No. 300................................... February 18, 1891
Pelpers, Paul Clarence, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202..........................May 30, 1899
Penry, John Edward, Petaluma Lodge No. 180..·--·-···-····--·-·.Pebruary 15, 1899
Perry, John Marlon, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19...·-·········-···-·--······Aprll 10, 1899
Peterson, James Carl, Naval Lodge No. 87-·····--·-·-······-·········-·--September 14, 1899
Philippi, Carl. Roseville Lodge No. 222..................·-·-·····-··············June 10, 1899
PUtz, George Henry, Lodge le Progres No. 371......-···-··--··-··········August 16, 1898
Pitzer, Sloan, Alhambra Lodge No. 322.. _. __ ..,.............................July 5, 1899
Pohley, Joseph Charles, Russian River Lodge No. 181.................-June, 1898
Poli, Ciro, Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219-·-···················-............1898
Pratt, Clarence Francis, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481.. .................June 29, 1899
Prendergast, Jeffry Joseph, Redlands Lodge No. 300.. - .................March 13, 1899
Primrose, Bert Anderson, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366..................... February 23, 1899
Rich, Charles Robert, Redwood City Lodge No. 168.......................November 26, 1898
Richardson, William Arthur, Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528............May 24, 1897
Roberts, William Humes, Corona Lodge No. 324............................0ctober 20, 1898
Robertson, Alexander, Salinas Lodge No. 204..........._.................... December 2, 1898
Rou, Thomas Paterson, Oriental Lodge No. 144............................Aprll 27, 1897
Rummlch, Carl, Security Lodge No. 581...........................................JUDe 24, 1899

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

85

DATE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE

Sage, Louis Erwin, Harding Lodge No. 584.·--····-···········-············December 10, 1898
Samuels, George Washington, Vacaville Lodge No. 134...........- ..June l, 1899
Samuelson, William, Evergreen Lodg_e No. 259...............................April 27, 1899
Shepardson, Charles 0., Woodstock Lodge No. 491.......................Novembei 28, 1898
Shulte, Albert Franklin, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.............................November 11. 1898
Smith, Gideon Henry, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356..........................April 18, 1899
Snow, Albert Flavel, Pomona Lodge No. 246..................................June 12, 1899
Southworth, E. P., Redlands Lodge No. 300....................................March 31, 1899
Stanton, Joseph Leighton, So. California Lodge No. '278................Prior 1895
Steel, Arthur Bridges, Rendondo Lodge No. 328.............................March 17, 1899
Stewart, Otho, Fort Crook Lodge No. 575..._..................................July 10, 1899
Stirewalt, Henry Walter, Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448.............._August 18, 1898
Stoltz, George Anthony, Crescent Lodge No. 45............................June 18, 1899
Thomas, Hayward Glacier, Oakland Lodge No. 188...................... May 13, 1899
Thompson, Edwin Davis, Sotoyome Lodge No. 123.......................June 3, 1899
Thom, William Henry, Redlands Lodge No. 300.....................- .....March 25, 1899
Tibbitts, Arthur Livingstone, Petaluma Lodge No. 180.................. February 8, 1899
Tapper, Reed Barber, Pasadena Lodge No. 272...............................]anuary 11. 1898
Townson, James T., Stanislaus Lodge No. 206................................April 19, 1899
Tretheway, John, Amador Lodge No. 65..........................................August 2, 1898
Tudor, Frank, Wilshire Lodge No. 445............................................March 5, 1895
Tunstall, Robert Noel, Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295..........................November 11. 1898
Turner, George Washington, Fresno Lodge No. 247......................July 28, 1898
Valvo, Joseph, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219.........................._.!898
Von Husen, William, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30...........................May 23, 1899
Volhardt, Harry, Lynwood Lodge No. 600......................................February 28, 1899
Von Tillow, Ward Wright, California Lodge No. L.....................October 10, 1898
Warriner, Frank Terry, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44....................June 14. 1899
Watkins, Wilfred G., Ramona Lodge No. 457.................................February 17, 1899
Watts, John Frazier, Rising Light Lodge No. 397........................... ~ril 22, 1899
Webb, George Standish, Durant Lodge No. 268...........·-·············-· ovember 18, 1898
Weed, Ulysses Edgar, Vacaville Lodge No. 134.............................July 21, 1899
Weihe, Otto Albert, Lodi Lodge No. 256..........................................September 4, 1899
Welch, Hilliard Elihu, Lodi Lodge No. 256......................................December 22, 1898
Wells, William Ira, Los Gatos Lodge No. 292................................July 22, 1898
White, William Jasper, Live Oak Lodge No. 61..............................November 21. 1898
Wilcox, William Darius, Occidental Lodge No. 22........................August 28, 1899
Wills, Grant, Marin Lodge No. 191.......- ................................._.....March 15, 1899
Wilson, James Russell, Union Lodge No. 58..................·-···-·····---December 20, 1897
Wissmath, John, Hollywood Lodge No. 355... _ .........................._December 15, 1897
Wood, Charles Henry, Live Oak Lodge No. 61...............................November 25, 1898
Woods, John Harry, Guardian Lodge No. 596................................March 21, 1899
Woods, Warren Anthony, Suisun Lodge No. 55.............................January 7, 1898
Wright, John Ellsworth, Whittier Lodge No. 323........................_.August 26, 1898
Young, Walter, San Bernardino Ladge No. 348.............................. December 13, 1890
Zett, George John, Excelsior Lodge No. 166..·-·······•···---··-········---April 5, 1899
Zimmerman, Augustus David, Woodstock Lodge No. 491.............April 8, 1899
Zuck, James Ralph, Carmel Lodge No. 680...- ................................January 5, 1899

Respectfully submitted,

~~

Referred to Committee on Segregation.
For financial report see Special Appendix.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge.
Free and Accepted Masons of California:
Again, it becomes my privilege to account to the Grand Lodge for the
activities of the Grand Lecturer and the Ritual Committee for the
Masonic year just closing.
Masonry continues to be on the march and our jurisdiction is now
at its peak, both in total membership and in the number of Lodges on its
roster.
Reports furnished by 11 9 of our 123 Inspectors indicate that the
Lodges are prosperous and busy. The officer material is predominately
on the favorable side, both in ritualistic perfection and in administrative
ability.
During the course of the year, the Inspectors have conducted innum~
erable schools of instruction and have traveled thousands of miles in the
pursuit of their duties.
The number of new Lodges in process of formation has added an
additional activity to the Inspectors involved. Under our law, they are
required to certify to the ritualistic ability of each set of proposed
officers. This means, in many cases, that the entire group must be
coached and taught until they become proficient. At times this may run
into several months of constant attention.
There is now a uniformity in all the work of the Lodges and a pride
in its exactness which excites the admiration, not only of our own
brethren, but also of those from other jurisdictions who happen to
visit us. This is the result of having made the language of our work
into a grammatical. connected, consistent and complete text; and further,
perhaps more, the result is due to the faithfulness and energy of the
Inspectors of the various districts who, by reason of their annual visits
to the Grand Lodge and the schools of instruction, are able to keep
the correct work fresh in their own memories and carry it home to their
Lodges. By this means the most remote districts away off in the recesses
of our rugged mountains and mining regions are enabled to share equally
with the brethren of our great plains and fertile valleys the knowledge
and beauties of our ritual.
The paragraph above was taken from the 1904 report of Grand
Lecturer William H. Edwards. It was true then and it is more so today.
Our inspectors have a long record of faithful performance and the words
reported by Brother Edwards are as deserving at this moment .as they
were in the years of long ago.
During the past year, the Inspectors have met with their Assistant

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lecturers in small groups at frequent intervals. In addition, the
usual mid-year schools were conducted by the respective Assistant
Grand Lecturers as follows:
Division A-June I I-12th
Division B-May 7-8th
Division C-June 4-5th
Division D--May l 3-l 4-l 5th
Division C was fortunate to have as its honored guest, our M.W.
Grand Master who presented to the Inspectors a resume of current
problems.
The schools were highly successful and well attended. At each meeting at least three Assistant Grand Lecturers were present in addition to
the Grand Lecturer. We also had the pleasure of the attendance of the
Grand Secretary who addressed the groups on each occasion. At the
meeting of Division A, we were privileged also to have our Senior Grand
Warden present and he discussed matters of great importance respecting
the functions of an Inspector.
In addition to the meetings reported above, a general school was con·
ducted by the Grand Lecturer on the Saturday and Sunday just preceding this communication.

rank. We also recommend that the following words be added to the
Senior Grand Warden's response to the question, "Who compose the
Grand Lodge of California?": insert "the W. Assistant Grand Treasurer" between "the W. Grand Orator" and "the W. Assistant Grand
Secretary." Also that the following language be substituted after the
recital of the Assistant Grand Secretary's duties and before the question: "Your duty Brother Grand Orator?": (Deleted for obvious rea·
sons).

RITUAL COMMITTEE

During the year, the Ritual Committee has been in regular communication by mail and at each of the division meetings at least four members
were in attendance. In addition to completely reviewing the ritual at
these gatherings, other matters of import were studied and clarified.
Our final meeting was held on August 6th and 7th at which time the
ritual was again reviewed. The following matters were also discussed.
ASSISTANT GRAND TREASURER

The creation of the office of Assistant Grand Treasurer requires the
adoption of new language for the Grand Lodge Opening, Closing and
Installation Ceremonies. In preparing the language to cover this office,
we have followed the existing ritual. We are cognizant of the fact that
a Committee on Grand Lodge Ritual will present a report later at this
communication. Whatever recommendation which they may make can
be covered in a supplemental report.
OPENING AND CLOSING CEREMONY

We recommend first that the Assistant Grand Treasurer be seated
on the right of the Grand Master next to the Grand Treasurer similar
to the arrangement of the Assistant Grand Secretary and the Grand
Secretary. Also that he take his 'place in the procession according to

87

INSTALLATION CEREMONY

Page 17. ADD after Grand Orator
Grand Master: Brother Master of Ceremonies you will now present
the W. Brother who has been appointed Assistant Grand Treasurer.
Ma~ter of Ceremonies: M.W. Grand Master, I take pleasure in
presenting to you W. Brother .................... who has been appointed
Assistant Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge.
Grand Master: W. Sir and Brother, you have been appointed
Assistant Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of California and I
now invest you with the jewel of your office.
It is !our du~y to assist the Grand Treasurer in the discharge of
such duties of his office as may be prescribed. With full knowledge
of your fitness for this office, I am confident that you will faithfully
execute the duties assigned to you.
.
You will now be conducted to your place in the Grand Lodge.
BooK OF CEREMONIES

We also recommend that an insert be prepared for the Book of
Ceremonies to cover the position of the Assistant Grand Treasurer in
the various formations printed in that Book. The insert should be in the
following form:
The following changes should be noted in the various forms of
procession.
CORNERSTONE LA YIN GS

Page 3-Assistant Grand Treasurer and Assistant Grand Secretary
march together.
Grand Orator and Grand Bible Bearer march together.
CoNSTITUTING LooGES

Page 27-Grand Orator marches alone following Assistant Grand
Lecturers.
Assistant Grand Treasurer and Assistant Grand Secretary march
together.
Page 32-Substitute Assistant Grand Treasurer for Grand
Organist.

88

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DEDICATION OF HALLS

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL
PURPOSES

Page 43-Substitute Assistant Grand Treasurer for Grand Organist
in each formation.
MONITOR AND OFFICERS' MANUAL

The Monitor and Officers' Manual as now used provides for a
ritual to cover the Reception of Grand Lodge Officers. On page 59
provision is made for all Grand Lodge Officers with the exception of
Inspectors who are entitled to "Grand Honors" on their official visits.
We recommend that at the next printing of the Monitor and
Officers' Manual. the following language be inserted on Page 59 immediately following the language now in brackets relating to the use of
the phrase "Of the Grand Lodge of California."
'*' Inspectors
The Worshipful ............................ ,
Inspector of the ....................... .
Masonic District, desires admission.
CONCLUSION

During the early part of this year, it was necessary for me to curtail
my activities due to illness. I reluctantly had to cancel some of my
engagements which had been arranged prior to my indisposition. I
regret exceedingly any inconvenience which I may have caused by the
upsetting of plans. I missed greatly the opportunity to participate in
the very enjoyable Masonic gatherings which I had been accustomed
to attend.
During this period, our ritualistic activities did not suffer because
of the very fine cooperation of the Assistant Grand Lecturers who have
carried on in very excellent style. It is comforting to know that here in
California we have four capable Assistant Grand Lecturers who are
uniform in ritual and in complete harmony with the Grand Lecturer.
Each of them is well equipped and qualified to act for the Grand Lecturer. It is a tribute to the far sighted brethren who conceived our
present plan of administering the important work of ritualistic instruction. In particular, we should be thankful that Past Grand Master
James B. Gist had the determination to put into operation the divisional
method of instruction and supervision during his year as Grand Master.
I express my heartfelt thanks to my associates on the Ritual Committee, to our M.W. Grand Master, to the V.W. Grand Secretary and
his fine staff and to all who have made this position so enjoyable and
pleasant.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR M. WARREN

Grand Lecturer
Adopted.

89

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LoDGES

Past Grand Master Hervey made a partial report for the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes.
Your Committee has had under consideration the various applications for recognition of foreign Grand Lodges and it is prepared at this
time to report as to the following:
GRAND LoDGE OF LowER CALIFORNIA

The Grand Lodge of Lower California, of which Ricardo C. Salazar, Avenida Mexico No. 120, Tijuana, Lower California, is the Grand
Master and Alfonso Gomez Pereyra is Grand Secretary, and whose
headquarters are at Tijuana, Lower California.
_This Grand Lodge was constituted on January 5th, 1933 by symbolic Lodges Precursora No. 33 of Mexicali, Ignacio Zaragoza No. 24
of Tijuana and Occidental No. 226 of Ensenada, all in Lower California, all three being dependents of the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico
and now, after sixteen years of regular Masonic life, they have under
their jurisdiction twelve subordinate Lodges, with a total membership
·
of 700.
The Grand Lodge meets three times a year at Tiajuana, a city with
a population of from 40,000 to 50,000 people and the Lodges have drawn
their membership from the leaders in the community. The Grand Master
is an industrialist and the manager-owner of the Telephone Company
'
Light & Power and Ice Company plant.
We. have examined the constitution of this Grand Lodge and find
its purposes and practices conform to the requirements and standards
set up by us for the recognition of foreign powers. This Grand Lodge
has been recognized by 7 Provincial Grand Lodges of Canada, by the
Grand Lodges of England, Ireland and Scotland, 7 Grand Lodges in
Australia, 19 Grand Lodges in the United States, by practically all the
recognized Grand Lodges in Central and South America and by all the
regular Grand Lodges of the Republic of Mexico.
Your Committee is of the opinion that this Grand Lodge should be
recognized by the Grand Lodge of California and we recommend that
such recognition be given to it.
GRAND LoDGE OF NUEVO LEON

The Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon, whose address is
Apertado 30 Monterrey, Nuavo Leon.
This Grand Lodge was duly and regularly constituted on June 24th,
1905 and is an independent, self-governing body with entire and undisputed jurisdiction over the symbolic Lodges within its jurisdiction,

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

which is embraced within the political boundaries of the State of Nuevo
Leon, Mexico, and is sovereign and supreme in all its territory.

"CALIFORNIA'S CENTENNIALS RECALL EARLY
MASONIC HISTORY"
JOSEPH R. KNOWLAND, SR., Grand Orator

It has 46 active Symbolic Lodges, with an aggregate membership
of 3170. The present Grand Master is M. W. Eutimio Cisneros and
Esteban Leal Villareal is Grand Secretary. The ritual of the Grand
Lodge is fundamentally in accord with the ancient landmarks, customs
and usages of the Craft, which involve Monotheism, the Three Great
Lights on the Altar while at labor, secrecy, the Symbolism of the Operative Art, the division into three symbolic degrees, the legend of the
Third Degree. It makes Masons of men only, it is non-sectarian, nonpolitical and its dominant purposes are charitable, benevolent and educational.
The regularity of the Grand Lodge can be traced back directly to
the Grand Lodge of England, via the Grand Lodge "Unida Mexicana"
of the State of Vera Cruz and the Grand Lodge of Cuba.

It holds fraternal community with the Grand Lodges of Texas,
Oklahoma, Louisiana, Arizona, Kentucky, New Hampshire and Massachusetts and with the York Grand Lodge of Mexico.
Your Committee is of the opinion that this Grand Lodge would be
justifled in recognizing the Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
and so recommends.
By separate action each of the above recommendations was unanimously adopted.
Brother Hervey reported that study was being continued relative to
recognition of the Grand Lodge of Hamburg and the Grand Lodge of
France.
Brother Hervey as Grand Representative of the United Grand Lodge
of England conveyed to this Annual Communication the greetings of
the Most Worshipful Grand Master of that jurisdiction.

91

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Past Grand Masters. Grand Lodge
Officers, Distinguished Guests and Members of Grand Lodge:
I have deemed it to be most appropriate at a time when this state is
commemorating one of the three years of outstanding historical events,
that I should recall early Masonic history associated with California's
centennials. In 1947, through legislative mandate and the appointment
of a state-wide centennials commission, · California pledged itself to
fittingly celebrate the gold discovery in 1948, gold rush days in 1949,
and in 1950 the admission of this territory to statehood. At the request
of Governor Earl Warren, I accepted the chairmanship of the Centennials Commission.
During 1948 there was officially commemorated at Coloma the gold
discovery by James W. Marshall-a history-making event with ramifications that were far-reaching in their effect upon state and national
history. Speciflcally, the added gold supply enabled this government
to finance the unfortunate and prolonged struggle between the states.
This historic rush across the plains, with its attendant hazards, emphasized the necessity for the building of a transcontinental railroad, while
those argonauts who came by water and crossed the fever-infested
isthmus, or rounded the treacherous Cape Horn, accelerated the movement which eventually resulted in the construction of the Panama Canal.
The present year, 1949, recalls the stirring gold rush days and the
establishment of stable government for California through the drafting
of a constitution at Monterey. This highly dramatic gathering at Colton
Hall, originally constructed as a school house and public meeting place,
was last month most successfully commemorated. During a nine day
period, with record crowds in attendance, a most colorful pageant with
a cast of 700 was presented, entitled "Beginners of Statehood.'' Impressive ceremonies were also held at Colton Hall.
There were forty-eight delegates in the Constitutional Convention,
hailing from fourteen states, with seven native Californians.
In recalling the history of this memorable gathering it is most noteworthy that it was called during the height of the gold rush excitement
when the quest for riches was the objective of most arrivals. Sixteen
of the delegates, about one-third, had come west following the discovery
of gold by Marshall. All of these forty-eight participants, those who
came recently and the earlier arrivals, obviously must have been inspired
by .the thought that in life there are things more precious than goldlove of country, support of constitutional government and maintenance
of law and order.

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This assemblage organized on September 3, 1849, and at the conclusion of their work on October 13th, presented a constitution that
reflected high credit upon their deliberations and no doubt expedited in
Congress the admission of California as the 31st state in the American
Union.
It was a gathering that obviously was attractive to Masons. As yet
no Grand Lodge had been established in California. The few Masonic
Lodges existed by virtue of charters from other states. Regardless of
these conditions, there were nine members of the Craft sitting as delegates, active and influential and wielding an influence far beyond their
numerical strength. They worked generaJly in unison and the record
shows them to have been sound on vital issues. It is significant that
Robert Semple, a Mason, was chosen as chairman. Semple was a tall
Kentuckian, standing six feet eight, and clad in buckskin, his head
adorned by a fox skin cap. He was editor of California's first newspaper,
"The Californian," and was generally credited with being "Ready with
his pen, quick at the type case and true with his rifle."
Among this close working group of nine Masons, four were lawyers,
one of these, Elisha 0. Crosby, I knew when I was a boy in Alameda,
where he officiated as Justice of the Peace.
Thirty-seven years after the constitution was drafted he returned
to Colton Hall and was the last delegate to speak in that historic
convention building. The occasion was the fortieth anniversary of the
raising of the American Flag at Monterey by Commodore John Drake
Sloat, who, by the way, was also a member of the Fraternity.
'
On that historic occasion, Judge Crosby in closing his remarks,
his voice trembling with emotion, said, "Well do I remember that last
day of the sitting, and how we clasped hands as we separated, many of
us for the last time on earth." Then he dramatically uttered this admonition: "In the name of those departed, and the little band that yet
remains, I ask you to take your place to preserve the good we did in
this first step to found a constitutional government in California."
Today, after the passing of a full century since the constitution was
drafted, these words should stimulate all California Masons and good
citizens to continue to be zealous in upholding .and preserving constitutional government.
The other lawyers in the convention were Lansford W. Hastings,
Jamesue Hall Jones and Myron Norton, the latter a member of Stevenson's New York Regiment which was brought to California in 1847.
Jones, 25 years of age, was the youngest of the group.
Jacob D. Hoppe and Abel Stearns were merchants. Rodman M. Price
was a :United States Navy purser who served with Commodore Sloat
and was later governor of New Jersey, while ·Pierre Sansevain was
said to be a viticulturist. Although a Mason, he was not a citizen of
the United States. The average age of this Masonic group was 35

-

93

years. These Masons vigorously championed a public school system
which the convention provided. Chairman Robert Semple stepped from
his chair to raise his voice and lead the successful battle for a cause
which still has the militant support of Masonry in California and
throughout the country.
In the pre-American occupation period and before the gold discovery
a sizable group of the early settlers were sea-faring men while others
were members of those early parties which had crossed the continent
for adventure and colonization. Among these were a number of Masons.
In this group was Peter Lassen whose party brought the first Masonic
Charter and organized Western Star Lodge at Benton City near where
was later located Leland Stanford Ranch. After a short time the Lodge
was removed to Shasta City and when the Grand Lodge of California
was formed in 1850, became Western Star Lodge No. 2.
On May 10, 1948, this lodge celebrated its hundredth anniv:ersary
and many Masons journeyed to this historic town. During Western
Star's centennial over fifty other California Lodges came to Shasta and
the visitors were thrilled, particularly the candidates, as degrees were
conferred in the ancient Lodge Hall. An outstanding event was on the
night that Grand Master Morris E. Ewing of Missouri, the Grand
Lodge of which state, a hundred years before had granted the charter,
came out for a special meeting and presented a bronze plaque to the
lodge. On this eventful night, Grand Master Siems made an official visit.
On May 10 of this year, 1949, at a special session called to fittingly
close the historic year, and with the Lodge Hall crowded, the impressive
ceremony was held by depositing a metal coffer, or casket. This was
sealed after being filled with various documents and mementoes to be
inspected when another full century has passed.
Other members of the craft included in this impressive list were:
Benjamin D. Wilson, known as Don Benito, who came to California
in 1841 and settled on a ranch near the present site of Riverside. He
became mayor of Los Angeles in 1851, and was honored by having Mt.
Wilson named for him.
Colonel Jonathan D. Stevenson of the New York regi~ent which
bore his name was elected as the first Grand Master. when a California
Grand Lodge was organized, and he became the first Grand Master.
John W. Geary, elected first alcalde, or mayor, of San Francisco,
has a most brilliant war record in both the Mexican and Civil Wars, and
was later governor of Pennsylvania.
William Heath Davis, author of "Sixty Years in California"; Kit
Carson, after whom Kit Carson Pass was named, noted scout who
guided General Fremont and other early exploring parties; George C.
Y.ount. for whom Yountville in Napa County was later named; John
Bidwell, an associate of Captain John A. Sutter of Sutter's Fort and
intimately associated with early California history; Pearson B. Redding,

•
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a peak and fort bearing his name; Thomas Fallon who first raised the
American Flag at San Jose, following Sloat's action at Monterey. When
Fallon heard that war had broken out between Mexico and United
States, he recruited a small company of Americans at Santa Cruz,
crossed the. Santa Cruz Mountains and raised the flag on July 13, 1846,
six days after Sloat had unfurled the Stars and Stripes at Monterey.
William B. Ide, another California Mason, headed the famous Bear
Flag Party, raised the emblem, since adopted as the California State
Flag, at Sonoma on June 14, 1846, and issued a fiery proclamation as the
head of that party. Later, Ide held many important positions in Colusa
County. The Native Sons of the Golden West yesterday dedicated
a monument in Colusa County to his memory. Sam Kelsey and Henry
Fowler were also members of that famous party.
Abel Stearns, who has already been mentioned as one of the delegates to the Constitutional Convention, was among the first Americans
to settle in California, arriving in 1829 and locating in Los Angeles.
He shipped to Philadelphia Mint in 1842 first gold mined in California. This was found near San Fernando Mission in Los Angeles
County and obtained by Stearns in exchange for merchandise.
Another Mason whose name was associated with early gold discovery and who might have become famous in California history was
Charles R. Bennett whose tombstone in the Masonic Cemetery at Salem,
Oregon, declares him to be the "Discoverer of gold in California."
Bennett came to California with Fremont in 1845. One day while
watering the animals on the American River, El Dorado County, he saw
yellow metal in the water, and as he had had experience in the gold
mines of Georgia, he recognized it to be gold. It was taken to Fremont's
tent, and ordered to be tested by the medical corps. Fremont, informed
that the find was gold, but realizing he was on foreign soil, suggested
they forget the incident.
Bennett also claims to have been with Marshall when gold was discovered at Coloma and contended he was the first to pick up a piece
of the precious metal, informing Marshall it was gold. Whether there
is truth in these statements of Bennett, the fact remains that the man
who gave the discovery to the world which started the great rush of
argonauts westward was James W. Marshall, and to him belongs the
credit.
In all of California history, the most tragic record of hardship, suffering and of heroism is found in the story of the Donner Party. It is
truly epical. Over a century has elapsed since the tragedy. Forty-two
men, women and children lost their lives in the most spectacular catastrophe to befall any group of emigrants' bound for California. In the
party of ninety-three, were 34 children ranging in age from one to fourteen years. Time does not permit a recital of the whole story, but the
part played by Masons is upon this occasion appropriate.

In nearly all the emigrant parties there was a common tie binding
those who belonged to the craft. In the long and trying days during the
haz~dous treks across the plains, or protracted sea voyages .with their
immment dangers, Masons somehow became known to each other and
the families likewise seemed to be aware of the ties that bound certain
individuals.
There were three members of the fraternity who apparently assumed
a certain leadershi.p in the Donner .party. They were William Heill'}'
Eddy, James Frazier Reed, and William McCutchen.
After word reached the outside world that the party was snowbound near Truckee, and starvation and exposure were taking their
toll. several attempts were made to send relief from Sacramento and
San Francisco, Acquilla Glover was a member of one of the first
~onner relief parties which successfully crossed the mountains to bring
aid, and fi?ally reached the snow-bound and starving survivors. It
was Glover s duty to get Mrs. Reed and children ready for the hazardous return trip across the snow-clad Sierra Nevada Mountains.
The relief party had not proceeded more than two miles on the
return trip when it became apparent that the two Reed children were
too small to continue. Recognizing this fact it became Glover's duty
to i~form the moth.er that they must go back to camp. The thought of
lea~mg these. two httle ones with others at such a trying time was a test
which was difficult for any mother to face with unanimity. Worn down
by famine and suffering, the ordeal was doubly severe. Then a thought
Bashed through the mother's mind. "Are you a Mason?" she asked of
Glover. He replied that he was. Placing her hand upon his shoulders
and looking searchingly into his eyes, she asked, "Will you, on your
word as a Master ~.ason, come back for these children, if I leave them
here as you request? There was only one answer for any red-blooded
man and a loyal Mason to give and unhesitatingly he replied, "I willl"
The sorrowing mother, caressing the two little children, started out
on the hazardous journey with firm step and with that confidence which
comes with complete trustfulness.
Little Patty Reed, the daughter, was then eight years old and her
brother, Tommy, younger. The little girl at the parting set an example
to those older for her self-control and fortitude. As the men were taking
her back to camp, controlling her emotions, her voice displaying firmness
she sai~ as she took To~my by the hand, "I am going back to take car~
of my httle brother, but I never expect to see mother again." I knew
Patty years later and talked with her many times after she had become
Mrs. Martha Jane Reed Lewis. She was probably the last survivor and
passed away in 1923.
'
A stately monument majestically towers among the trees· and near
the f.ormer camp sites of various groups of this famous but ill-fated party
seekmg homes and a new start in California prior to the gold discovery

95

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and statehood. They were pathfinders whose adventurous spirit typifies
the indomitable determination, perseverance and will to conquer
possessed by all pioneers. This is why California has made a state
park of this Donner party area, recently extending its boundaries to a
total of 360 acres and including a portion of historic Donner Lake.
In early California history, during and following the gold rush days,
there were a galaxy of men, members of the craft, who displayed remarkable traits of character, who were early builders, while a .substantial
number occupied positions of high honor. Time will permit only the
mention of a few.
Jonathan Trumbull Warner, a six-foot-three Connecticut Yankee,
acquired and built up the now famous Warner's Ranch. This landmark
figured prominently in the conquest of California. The famous Butterfield Overland Mail Co. established a stage station there in 1858.
Josiah Belden, one of the public-spirited citizens of San Jose,
who put up the money to supply a state house which burned in later
years, was chosen the city's first mayor.
In the early mining days, William Morris Stewart was a member of
Nevada Lodge of Nevada City, and was later United States Senator
from the state of Nevada. Governor Bigler of California in 1854 appointed Stewart to fill the place of Attorney General during the incumbent's temporary absence from the state. Stewart became a great mining
expert. He secured, while senator, Mark Twain a job as clerk in the
upper house.
A California senator also came out of Nevada Lodge in the person of
Aaron A. Sargent. He was appointed Grand Orator of the order but
senatorial duties prevented his acceptance after he had been elected to
that office. He had previously served as a member of the national House
of Representatives and minister plenipotentiary to Germany.
.
The famous James G. Fair was made a Mason at Bear Mountain
Lodge No. 76 when he was installed as Senior Deacon.
Edwin Markham, author of "The Man With the Hoe," was a member of Acacia Lodge No. 92, in El Dorado County. He was one of the
great contributors to the literary fame of California.
Among the notable members of Henry Clay Lodge of Sutter Creek,
was Alvinza Hayward, miner, banker and millionaire and a great California builder. Hayward was a most enthusiastic Mason and remained
active until his death. He never forgot his fellow members and was
known for his generosity.
From the smallest lodges sometimes come the biggest men. John W.
Mackay, nationally known as one of the big four of Comstock Silver
fame, was a member of Forest Lodge, Forest City, Sierra County.
He has always been reputed as one of the most democratic individuals
and one with great loyalty to friends.

97

Gravel Lodge No. 69 of Camptonville erected a monument in honor
of a noted Californian, Lester Allen Pelton, inventor of the Pelton
waterwheel, who joined the lodge in 1869.
In the heydey of early mining, Lodges were started in many of the
communities which have now become ghost towns. For instance, there
were Masonic Lodges in Illinoistown, and in both Alpha and Omega,
Orleans Flat, Moore's Flat, North Bloomfield, Brandy City, Red Dog,
Spanish Flat, Coloma, where gold was discovered, and Elizabethtown,
now all memories. Then there were Drytown and Fiddletown, Rough
and Ready, and I might continue.
In these early mining towns, fire was a great and continuing hazard.
Few of the Lodges escaped, particularly at a time when insurance was
little known. Some of the Lodges burned at least five times and in many
cases, early records were destroyed. Mariposa Lodge, for instance,
operated under a five mile roving charter. The Lodge had two disastrous fires and many times they had to meet in the hills back of the
town under a tree and elsewhere, the home of a member or in the
county courthouse.
The story of historic Rough and Ready is interesting. It was wiped
out by fire three times and in 1850 the town seceded from the Union
because a Yankee trimmed a Southerner in a mining deal. It was decided
to secede and a call to organize a new state in which no yankees would
be allowed to live. The State of Rough and Ready was the result.
Finally, the new state was dissolved by its organizers in order to
participate in a 4th of July celebration.
Typical of the fate of other early California communities after mining
operations had slackened, and devastating fires taken their toll, Columbia, in Tuolumne County, was fast becoming a ghost town. This "Gem
of the Southern Mines," and once mentioned as a state capital, was taken
over as a state park in 1947 with impressive ceremonies led by Past
Grand Master and Governor Earl Warren and the Park Commission.
All that was left of the Masonic meeting place, Columbia Lodge
No. 28, was an excavation above which had stood a dignified but small
hall within the sacred walls of which early California history was made.
Out of this lodge came a Grand Master, William Abraham Davies,
who was also elected Grand Commander of the Knights Templar. After
consolidation with Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 at Sonora the property was
sold to a mining man who desired to test out the ground as other lots
in the vicinity had yielded paying ore, but this venture failed to pay the
expenses of the effort.
The movement of the Grand Lodge to rebuild the old hall at Columbia is most praiseworthy and has caused much favorable comment
throughout the state. In the years to come when possibly all these

99

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

mining towns, except Columbia, are but memories, when. the old lodge
halls in other localities have entirely disappeared, how im~ortant th~t
this little building should stand. Possibly it might con.tam. Mas~mc
exhibits pertaining to early mining days, and located as it will be ·~ a
state park there will be adequate fire protection which is now b.e1~g
installed. This building should stand as a monument to the activ1~y
and struggles of Masonry in the days when the going was hard. It will
also be a reminder of the contribution of Masons to stable government.
It will likewise complement the little red brick public school house. of
the gold rush days, which stands on the .hill .ov~rlo~king the town, w~ich
building the state has acquired, and which 1~ si~mficant as an American
institution, and emblematic of one of the objectives of our order.

by allowing the dog to enter and they went through the entire degrees
tQgether.
One report is that the only trouble was during the third degree. In
stretching the story further, it is reported that a few months later the
brother and his dog sought admission to another Lodge. The dog was
stopped and a row ensued. However, another brother who knew the
drcumstances and had sat in the lodge at the initiation, vouched for the
dog and he came in with the member.
A century ago California was confronted with many problems as it
passed through the transition period, when permanent government was
being established, and law and order gradually maintained, all marking
the beginnings of a great state. Then our population was small, for
when the first legislature convened in San Jose in December, 1849, it
was less than 100,000, while today it is fast approaching the ten million
four hundred thousand mark.
Great national problems face us today as we assume the responsibilities as citizens of one of the largest states in the American Union.
Our obligations as Masons and American citizens never weighed more
heavily upon us. One hundred years ago the country was heeding admonitions of the Father of our Country to "Avoid entangling foreign
alliances." Today we must all admit Washington's words of caution
have probably of necessity been almost entirely disregarded. The red
menace has put us in Europe to the very limit of our financial resources.
If I interpret the general thinking it appears to be that we cannot afford
to disregard the plight of those sixteen world areas now under
red pressure, and must show a willingness to aid in rehabilitating and
pcouraging them that they may eventually become self-supporting and
pemain self-governed. The noble effort may fail, but our willingness to
help should, on the other hand, increase our prestige throughout the
world, and America can feel that it has at least tried.
These.California Centennial years should be inspiring as they recall
the splendid courage of the early builders of this Fraternity as they
strove to spread the tenets of Masonry throughout the then ever. changing mining regions and into a new territory. While these efforts
were difficult and the obstacles encountered were at times most discouraging, these pioneers were not deterred in their fraternal activities, but
found time to simultaneously assume the role of good citizens and
render valuable service in establishing constitutional government for
California when conditions were most chaotic.
With the passing of a century we today find our problems are growing with the years. We must watch and seek to curb those forces within
our own boundaries, and from without, insidiously striving to undermine
our ancient institutions. May this group, and others, stand as bulwarks
against the propaganda and teachings of those who seek to belittle and
to destroy, to cast aspersions upon what our forefathers, many of them

98

It was a great struggle for many of the early Lodges to aid the needy,
-so important in this new country where doctors were scarce and practically no hospitals existed. Fraternities bore the burdens. Lodges were
usually generous and in many instances paid out more tha~ they h~d
received and the membership made up the differen~e.· For msta~ce, m
1875, Georgetown Lodge expended $540.12 on rehef an? took i~ only
$591.48 during the whole year. This may have been discouraging ~o
the miners but possibly they were accustomed to discouragement. This
lodge survived five disastrous fires and still exists.
Amusing stories are handed down, ~nd. for a n~~ber of these I am
indebted to the history committee which is compiling the story of a
century or more of -Masonry in California. A story is told of a member
who appropriated a lump of gold, we hope by mistak~, and wa~ expelled.
Shortly after this a member was accused of · shooting a Chinaman at
Johnstown. He got off with a reprimand. These w~re the day~ when
anti-Chinese feeling was running high and the shooting of a Chinaman
was apparently not considered a heinous offense.
Hydraulic operations entirely obliterated a number of minin~ towns.
The place where St. Louis Lodge stood in Sierra County. is ~o~ay
nothing but a huge scar on the hillside, the result of hy.drauhc .mmmg.
A beautiful Italian marble cornerstone which was freighted m~o the
town on muleback was washed down with oth~r rock. One day it wa~
found beihg used as a doorstep for a woman s cottage. Eventually it
was rescued and gradually made its way down to Forbesto~n where
it was restored to a place of honor in the wall of the Masonic Temple.
The locale of another story is at Drytown. Originating in Dryto~n
it must be true. A miner was elected to membership and on the even.mg
he was to be initiated he brought with him an in~eparable companion,
ll d g which followed him into the preparation room. When the
a ffima a~tempted to put the canine out, the candidate objected. In
~ac~e~~s declaration was, "No dog, no Masonry." As the lodge was
very short of members it was finally decided that no harm could come

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

pioneers have built and maintained over the years, at such great sacrifices. We should uphold our own government when right, ~nd ne:er
hesitate to sustain honest officials in the performance of public service.
Brothers, a great work lies ahead in these trying days, and the ye~rs
ahead, to hold the lines against those who seek to destroy and no~ b~ild.
The task confronting us at this hour is not easy but the ob1ect1ves
should stimulate us to renewed effort in the building of a more powerful
and united nation and state whose prestige and streng.th shall grow• and
the patriotism of its citizens quickened with the passing of years. We
may be at the cross roads.

Report of Committee

100

101

on
Thirtieth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week
To the M. W. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A report from the Committee on Public Schools Week has more than
once commenced by calling attention to the continued growth of the
Observance in public favor; and more than once it has been said of a
particular observance that it was the most successful ever held.
That was not strange in the early days of the movement before Public Schools Week had received the recognition accorded it in recent
years. But it does seem surprising, and certainly very gratifying to this
Committee, that we are warranted by the reports from the lodges in
describing our latest observance in the very words used of an earlier one:
"It was bigger and better in every way than the most successful of past
years-'bigger and better from every point of view-in attendance at the
evening 'open house' programs, in the number of visitors to the schools,
in the type of programs presented, in the generous support of the newspapers and broadcasting stations, and in the enthusiastic cooperation
given by the groups which join with us in the annual observance."

A motion by Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites prevailed requesting the Grand Orator to de!iv~r a. copy of the oration to the Grand
Secretary for printing and d1stnbut1on to the Lodges.

There can be no question, of course, that the cooperation received by
Grand Lodge and the constituent lodges from the other organizations
contributed materially to the success achieved. But it is likewise true
that the Masonic Fraternity continues to be the mainstay of the
movement.
-

This is not said boastfully, but as the mere statement of a fact that is
everywhere evident. There are many communities in which a very successful observance was held where the only assistance received by the
lodge was that given by the school people. In fact in some of these communities, the Masonic Lodge is the only organization or association of
any sort or kind. Indeed it would not be too much to say that we believe
that there are only a few communities in which there would be an observance of Public Schools Week were it not for the part played by the
lodges.
.
•

Although the observance of Public Schools Week has become a community affair, and is no longer, as it once was, a purely Masonic event,

103

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

and although that fact is stressed in the literature we send out,
Masonry's connection with it is almost everywhere referred to in the
publicity given the local programs. As merely one instance of this ( and
hundreds could be cited) we quote the following from an editorial calling on the people of the community to visit the schools:

.I .would be remiss if I did not include a word of appreciation for the
untmng work of Mr. Robert Odell in connection with our annual celebration of Public Schools Week. We can always count on hiI!l for one
hundred per cent cooperation.

102

"Public Schools Week in California was founded by the Grand
Lodge of Masons." ...
"The general support of the public and of the schools has led to
the feeling that Public Schools Week belongs to everybody. So it
does; but honor to the Masons for a job well done."
LOS ANGELES CITY BOARD OF EDUCATION
Administrative Offices
451 North Hill Street
Los Angeles 12, California
September 19, 1949
Mr. Charles Albert Adams, Chairman
Committee on Public Schools Week
Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Monadnock Building
San Francisco, California
Dear Mr. Adams:
Long before coming to California I heard many favorable reports
about the success of Public Schools Week as conceived and promoted
by the Masonic Order of California. After having observed the Week's
activities at close range I can sincerely say the reports were not in the
least overdrawn.
In the Los Angeles School District, during the week of April 25 to
29, more than a quarter million citizens visited our schools and observed
the educational program in action. Many Masonic Lodges held special
meetings devoted exclusively to discussions of the public schools and
their problems.
It is highly commendable that the Grand Lodge has encouraged
many other community groups to participate in Public Schools Week.
So widespread has the participation become in Los Angeles that practically all civic organizations take notice of the event and representatives
of the press and radio besiege us for news stories describing the school
activities which are planned for the Week. To the Masonic Order in
this area we school people, and the citizens generally, owe a debt of
gratitude for such solid support of the system of Public Education.

Again we thank the Masonic Order of this State for its consistent
and intelligent support of our public schools.
Yours sincerely,
( signed) A. J. Stoddard
Superintendent of Schools
AJS-Hffem
The announcements of Public Schools Week made by the State
Heads of the cooperating org~nizations are of especial value. Not only
do they awaken the interest of their members in the local observances
but they serve another purpose. These announcements are obtained b;
our Director of Publicity and with the Proclamation of the Grand Master
and the Proclamation issued by the Governor furnish the stories sent
out by this Committee to the State press--metropolitan and ruralduring the six weeks immediately preceding the beginning of the
observance.
These stories are always well received; but the response this year was
particularly gratifying. There were extensive quotations from all of
them by editors and publishers throughout the State; (lnd there were
several newspapers which carried in full Grand Master Siems's proclamation and that issued by Governor Warren and also a statement which
had been issued by the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Excerpts
from both proclamations appear in much of the local publicity. Repeatedly quoted in urging visits to the schools was this excerpt from the
Governor's proclamation:
"It is not sufficient for one merely to pay his school taxes and
consider that he has done his part. It is the responsibility of each
citizen to maintain a continuing and active inter-est in our public
schools and in the type of education they provide."
In addition to the proclamations issued each year by the Grand
Master and by the Governor, there have been, for many years, proclamations issued by the Mayors, or other civic heads, of many of our
communities. But never before were there so many as were issued this
year. It would seem as though the Mayor, or some authorized official,
or body, in every city and town in California issued a proclamation

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

recognizinig Public Schools Week and calling on the people to give it
their support by visiting a school or in some way joining in the observance. In at least two instances there was a joint proclamation by Mayors
of adjoining communities.
These local proclamations are excellent publicity for the local observance. The story is frequently illustrated by a photograph showing the
official seated at his desk signing the document; with a group behind him
in which are representatives of the school people and of the Committee of
Arrangements. Two instances of this reported this year are here mentioned: although in one the official was not the Mayor of a city, but the
Governor of the Territory of Hawaii.
A newspaper clipping attached to a report from one of the largest
of our cities shows the Mayor signing the proclamation, and standing
behind, looking over his shoulder, the City School Superintendent on his
right, and on the other side a Past Grand Master who is referred to in
the caption as "a leader in the movement to have the first week set aside
thirty years ago when Masonic Groups sponsored the program." Incidentally all three men are Masons.
Attached to the joint report from the five lodges on Oahu, T. H.
is a clipping which shows Governor Stainback again this year signing a
proclamation while grouped behind him and looking on are, among
others, the Superintendent of the Department of Public Instruction and
the Chairman of the Masonic Committee sponsoring the observance;
and with them a prominent member of Grand Lodge who is one of the
leaders among the Island brethren.
One reason, perhaps, for the great amount of publicity given the
observance this year was a recognition of the fact that, as was set forth
in an editorial, it was never more appropriate; because there has never
been greater need for that sound and sterling American citizenship of
the type which our public schools, with the proper teaching can inculcate
in American youth.
In this connection it is interesting to note the attention given the
observance itself as distinct from the news report of a particular program.
Illustrative of this are the following comments which are a few of the
many which might be quoted:
"The Masonic Lodge was the founder of Public Schools Week
some 29 years ago. It is one of the many worth-while projects spon. sored by the Order.''

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

105

"This is Public Schools Week; and it is one of the few of the
many 'weeks' seeking publicity that is really worth while.''
"Public Schools Week is the parent's opportunity to find out
where, how and with whom their children are growing up. It is an
invitation to get acquainted and pull together for the best interests
of the rising generation.''
"Almost every week in the year has been appropriated for one
or more special purpose.... There is Baby Week and Fire Week
and this week and that week and every type of week imaginable.
But none is more important, or deserves more attention than Public
Schools Week."
"Among the special 'weeks' of the year, few, if any, are more
worthy of recognition than Public Schools Week which will be
observed next week-April 25-30."
"Of all the varied 'weeks' as they come along none is endorsed
with higher and more patriotic purpose than Public Schools Week,
originating in California and proclaimed by Governor Warren on
this its thirtieth annual observance as the Week of April 25-30."
"The Thirtieth Annual Public Schools Week celebrated and
starting today is considerably more real and important than most
of the 'weeks' we are called upon to observe for the very simple
reason that the schools are close to all of us.''
"There is no doubt about it, Public Schools Week does an incalculably good job of public relations. For one thing, and perhaps
this is the most important, it shows the children that adults are
greatly interested in the work the children are doing.''
And here is one which perhaps should be more valued than any of
the others, because it is so evident that the praise given the observance
is not occasioned by any Masonic bias in its favor. There is no reference to Masons or Masonry in the editorial; and it is the Parent-Teacher
Association which is given the credit for "backing the annual week.''
Incidentally the word "public" is also not to be found in the entire
editorial and the week is described as " Annual Schools Week." We
quote only the beginning of the editorial and that portion giving well deserved praise to the Parent-Teacher Association:

106

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"There is approaching another 'week' as such periods are named
in proclamations and in observance.
"This one will not call for parades and open celebration; neither
will it call for funds or the like.
"But it is all-important, perhaps of supreme importance as
measured by other 'weeks'.
"From April 26 through the 30th-that's next week. the State
of California will be marking 'Annual School Week' " ...
"Backing the annual week is the Parent-Teacher Association as
a whole and in groups. This organization has done much in the
way of coordinating schools and homes. of bringing each in close
touch with the other, and through the coming week this organization will be helpful in many ways if only the people will respond to
the bid to 'come and see'."
Helpful indeed was the Parent-Teacher Association not only in that
community. but elsewhere as well. Without depreciating. in the slightest degree, the contributions made by other organizations. we can not
forebear saying that it appears from the reports that in some communities that association was the only organized unit actively cooperating
with the local lodge.

It is impossible to account with certainty for such a successful observance as was held this year. The only thing that is certain is that
success does not · just happen: but is the result of the zeal, interest and
intelligence with which the arrangements are made and carried out.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

107

The publicity given this year's observance exceeded even that reteived last year. Not only was it in its entirety greater in volume, but
there were more editorials and more of those special articles of a sort
ordinarily found only in educational journals. There were also more
potographs and cartoons-some illustrating news stories and others
on the editorial· pages with editorials concerning the Observance and
urging the people to visit the schools.
The limitations of this report do not permit the extended reference
that should be made to the very valuable service thus rendered the cause
of public education. But we make mention of three instances typical of
m.any. The first is of a newspaper which published a series of articles,
pne appearing each day during the week, discussing the problem "Why
Children Fail In School." In another newspaper there was each day
during the week an editorial on an educational topic, or on a local situation affecting the schools, written by one of six editors. These were
"guest editors" invited by the Publisher to write the editorials in the
hope that it would, as he said, "stimulate some thinking and arouse more
interest in the public schools."
The third of the references we make is to a somewhat unusual.
but very effective contribution of newspaper publicity. In a city in which
Public Schools Week is always enthusiastically, and very intelligently,
observed, a newspaper published a special illustrated section of four
pages devoted entirely to Public Schools Week, and the local schools.
We fear that the condensation we must make may not do justice to it,
but lack of space forbids the detailed description it so well deserves.
Except for an article on "Public Schools Week Saluted By Community," and giving the local program for the week, and also one explaining a "New Crowding Threat Seen For High Schools," the entire section is composed of pictures. These are photographs of the pupils of the
schools in various situations and constitute a picture story which is both
informative and thought provoking.

We wish it were practicable to report in detail the manner in which
the arrangements for some of the local observances were made-the
meetings of the Committee, and of the sub-committees-the discussions
of suggested programs, and the type finally agreed upon-the suggestions with respect to window exhibits, what they should be and where
to be displayed-the contacts to be made with the service clubs-how
the visitors to the schools should be taken care of-and the many other
details which spell the difference between success and failure. But lack
of space forbids.

The first page tells the story, in pictures, of "Shirley's Day At
School." She is shown leaving home and then joining other children on
their way to school while a policeman holds back the traffic; and then in
successive pictures Shirley is shown availing herself of the offerings of
the school. including the cafeteria and the hobby class, and in the last
picture having a skinned knee, resulting from a slight accident on the
1>layground, being cared for by the school nurse.

Above and beyond everything else, the success of this year's, as of
past years'. success was primarily due to the zealous and especially valuable cooperation of the school people and to the cordial support of the
newspapers and the broadcasting stations.

The second page shows high school students "learning to be good
ltitizens" and "to understand and appreciate American Democracy."
The last of the nine pictures on that page shows how "democracy can be
learned on the playground as well as in the classroom."

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

On the third page is shown in pictures "the vocational, and the avocational, training" offered by the evening High School. And on the last
page are pictures evidencing the "new crowding threat" and the reasons
urged for the building of a new high school. With the pictures 'is a map
of the school district, and there is also a graph illustrating the expected
enrollment trend and the capacity of the existing high schools. The
rapid increase in births since the beginning of the war as aifecting school
population is shown in two photographs--one of a tiny baby in the
nurse's arms and the other of "that tiny baby now in the fifth grade and
who by 1953 will be entering high school."
There was here a real service to the community (and perhaps to
other communities) as well as evidence of an enthusiastic cooperation in
the observance of Public Schools Week. It is but typical, however of
that fine cooperation which the newspapers of California-both metropolitan and rural-always give to the observance of Public Schools
Week: and also of the valuable service they thus render their respective
communities.
The broadcasting stations were no less generous in their support
than were the newspapers: and no less valuable was the service they
rendered. There was hardly one report from a community in which
there is a station which did not make special mention of the extent of
of radio participation in the program.
The net-work systems were no less cooperative than were the small
independent stations. Again this year, in addition to "spot announce#
ments" and newscasts, there were broadcasts of addresses, plays,
chorals, glee club renderings, panels and round-table discussions: and
there were several programs broadcast from classroms. It would seem
that each year radio plays a larger part in the observance of Public
Schools Week.
The newspapers and the broadcasting stations are not the only
sources of publicity made use of by the committees in charge of a local
observance. Last year there was reported as a novelty the use of lapel
ribbons on which was printed "Visit Your Schools." This year there
were several reports of the use of this form of publicity. The ribbons
were worn by clerks in the stores, by delivery men and by attendants in
service stations during the week prior to the opening of the observance.
A variation reported this year was a ribbon, to be worn during the week.
The inscription had been changed from "Visit Your Schools" to "I Have
Visited a School-Have You7" They were obtainable only at the schools
where they were given to all visitors.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

109

Another way of attracting visits to the schools or to the evening
programs is through the use of store windows for school exhibits-the
most attractive being the "live" or "action" exhibits.
There was this year in one community a combination of the ribbon
idea with a store exhibit which had for its focal point a "little red school
house" bulging with children. Poised overhead was a stork in flight with
a diaper of babies suspended from its beak. With the exhibit was a placard telling the number of babies born in that city each year with the enrollment in 1939 and in the current year and the anticipated 1959 enrollment. A picture of the school house (without the children and without
the stork) was printed on a "souvenir bookmark" with the inscription
"The Little Red Schoolhouse has grown up--and is now bursting at the
seams." This was printed by the schools and was distributed at luncheons and dinners immediately preceding, and during the week.
A very clever distribution of exhibits-"action" and "still" was reported from a community in which the arrangements had been made in a
manner which practically insured a successful observance. A typewriter
shop had students from the commercial classes demonstrating phases of
instruction in the commercial field. "Art in action" was the display in a
paint store: the "Health Program" was displayed in the window of a
pharmacy, and "Thrift in the Schools" in a Bank window. In other
windows demonstrations were given in weaving, painting, ceramics and
cartoon drawing: and there was a display of 500 text books in current
use in the elementary grammar and high schools. A Title Guaranty
Company had a series of photographs of new school construction and of
a new school swimming pool which had just been completed.
In a community from which came an extremely interesting report of a
very successful observance, the class from the Print Shop contributed a
very clever stunt at an open house affair. Each visitor on leaving was
presented with a facsimile of a special edition of the "Print Shop
Gazette" with his name in a head line reading "John Doe (but the real
name of the visitor) is greeted in attending Open House." Inside information is that as the visitors signed the "Open House" register on
their arrival their names would be rushed to the linotype, the line cast
with the individual's name in the heading which was then locked up in a
form and imprinted in the blank space on the already printed page.
As has been indicated there were this year an unusually large number
of programs calculated to convey information with respect to what the
schools are doing, and how it is being done, rather than to provide entertainment. We wish we could describe some of these such as the "Backto-School" and "Showing Mom and Dad" and those where the teachers,
and some times the students, explained in detail the modern methods of

110

111

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

teaching the old subjects: and what the new subjects accomplish in the
education of our youth: but lack of space again forbids.

between the public and its schools which is so essential to a continuance
of the faith and confidence upon which they necessarily depend; and
which assures to the teacher the recognition to which she is so well entitled. Contributing to this in no small degree are the contacts made in
the so-called "Appreciation Dinners."

Of course, as there always are, there were parades and pageants and
sundry spectacles (and perhaps more of them because this is one of Cali#
fornia's centennial years). But many of these were decidedly informa#
tive as well as entertaining. They were exceedingly elaborate and illustrated a "theme" which had been adopted for an observance. The theme
in several instances was suggested by the State centennial. Among
these were "The Days of '49," "Golden California," "California Yesterday and Today," "California's Golden Age," "Olden, Golden California" and many others too numerous to mention. They told the story
in whole or in part of the growth of the State from the Mission period
down through the gold rush and covered wagon days: and of course
there were elaborate costumes with incidental music and dancing. They
carried out one of the purposes of the Week in that they tended to focus
the attention of the public on the schools.
Themes of the sort mentioned were not the only ones around which
observances were built. Among others deemed worthy of mention were
"The Public School-Defender of Democracy," "The Public Schools
Are Your Schools," "Know Your Schools-Their Work and Their
Needs": and one which seemed to strike public fancy because frequently
editorialized-"The Lamp of Freedom-the Public School." One commentator said of it, "a very good slogan since more than ever we are
realizing that the public school, whether rural or urban, is a fertile field
for the germination of the seeds of democracy."
Again this year liberal use was made of "forums" and "panels" of
various sorts to convey to the public information with respect to the
schools. The subjects apparently most frequently discussed were the
crowded conditions of the schools and the urgent need for more classrooms, and pending bond issue elections.
Akin to the forum and panel discussions, was what must have been
ari exceedingly interesting program in the form of a "quiz" presented' at
a club luncheon meeting to show the wide range of information possessed
by our modern youth. The "quiz master" was the Superintendent of
Schools who propounded the questions to a .group of high school students
who had no previous knowledge of what they were to be asked. In fact
some of the questions came from the audience.
There will naturally be differences of opinion as to which of the purposes of Public Schools Week is, in itself, the most important. But one
might hazard the opinion that the most important thing Public Schools
Week is doing-indeed has done-is to bring about that close contact

These gatherings, sometimes in the form of luncheons, are a development of the "Pre-Week Dinner" inaugurated many years ago, and still
given each year in a city in which there are three lodges. The officers of
these lodges are the hosts and the Mayor of the City, the members of
the Board of Education, the Superintendent of Schools and the Principals of the schools, with a few others, are the guests.
Among the gatherings reported this year were some in which the
roles of host and guest were reversed. In more than one instance it was
the school people who wanted to show their appreciation of what was
being accomplished by the observance of Public Schools Week: and
they gave a dinner, or luncheon, for the friends of the school who had
been active in making its observance a success. On at least one occasion
it was the Parent-Teacher Association that was host.
So valuable do we believe this sort of thing to be, that we here repeat
what was said last year of a dinner in which the hosts were the members
of the joint committee of the Masonic lodges joining in the observance,
and the guests were ninety principals and teachers of the schools in the
area; and the announced purpose of which was "to provide an expression
of appreciation for the contribution of our public schools to the welfare
and development of the community:"
"That this 'appreciation banquet' served its avowed purpose,
there can be no doubt. But something more than this must have
been effected. Affairs of this sort are a recognition of not only the
worth of our teachers, as such, but also of their high place in the
civic life of the community: and incidentally of their social status.
They tend to make the profession attractive to those young people
who now seem disinclined to prepare themselves for it."
That was only a surmise; but that it is a fact was evidenced this year
by several letters, or excerpts from them constituting parts of reports
received from the lodges. We mention only a few: One was a letter
to the master of a lodge from the Surperintendent of Schools who
wrote. "On behalf of our public schools I want to express appreciation
for the very fine dinner and program given by your lodge in honor of
the school people in this valley. We put a high premium on your
interest in us as a group and hope that we will conti!}ue to merit your
confidence." And in another community it was a teacher who wrote the

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

master of the lodge saying, among other things, "Such an indication of
approval makes us all very happy to be serving in our school commu..
nity." And another master reported the receipt of a letter from the Prin..
cipal of a high school who said, after referring to the dinner honoring the
teachers, "It is my feeling that
Lodge is evidencing strong leadership in teacher recognition which can only lead to better teaching and
better schools.''
The feeling of that Principal is, we think, that of the school people
generally. The Superintendent of a large school system in stating his
reaction to an observance used these words, "There seems to be a general feeling that one of the important outcomes of this very wonderful
week's activities was the feeling that teachers and administrators were
being appreciated as never before and were being encouraged to go on
and continue the fine work they are now doing."
Expressions such as these would seem to warrant the opinion expressed in a Bulletin of Suggestions issued by the State Department of
Education even before Public Schools Week had attained its present
proportions.
After detailing "some of the more important purposes which can be
served by Public Schools Week" there followed this statement:
"Public Schools Week has proved highly effective as a public
relations enterprise.... It has contributed to the accomplishment of
all the foregoing purposes. No other single institution or agency
has contributed more to the understanding of public education in
California and to the high esteem held by citizens for their schools.''
We close this report with a quotation from an editorial in a newspaper published in a city which is justly proud of its fine educational
system.
After reminding the people of the opportunity afforded by Public
Schools Week "to acquaint themselves with the latest educational techniques •.. and to see and understand some of the major problems now
confronting the school system," the editorial continues:
"At the week's end they will be able to agree that while improvements will always be necessary and desirable, up-to-date equipment
and teaching methods have made this State's school system a guide
for less fortunate regions. Moreover as the level of education in
any state can be no higher than the interest of its citizens, the institution of Public Schools Week can take some modest credit for
school standards. Its biggest goal is to foster an interest in educa.-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

113

tion on the part of parents that will not be confined to one week, but
will endure throughout the year."
Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
JoHN M. LEE
ROBERT A. ODELL
JESSE

w. WARNER

ROBERT G. WOLL

The Grand Master referred to the Committee on Finance that portion
of the above relative to an appropriation.

114

115

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC HOMES

bakery. a butcher shop with modern refrigeration including deep freeze,
a vegetable preparation room with cold storage facilities: the installation
of an elevator in the Temple, painting throughout and the installation
of modern seating and toilet facilities on the lodge room floor: painting
throughout all buildings whether new or old: replacement of worn out
equipment and supplying of new equipment in new buildings: replacement of wornout furniture, carpets, etc.: modernization of all elevators
in the main buildings: the resurfacing of all roads and the development
of new roads where required: the development and landscaping of the
grounds: repairs and other changes to meet the requirements of the State
Fire Marshall: a garage to house the cars of the employees who live on
the grounds.
·
The contracts which could be let preliminarily totaled $525,000.00
of which there has been paid to date $445,111.85. As the work has
progressed, additional contracts have b~en let with the result that the
total payments to date for all new construction, reconstruction, repairs
and rehabilitation, including equipment, total $593,037.99. The balance
on existing contracts approximates $80,000.00.
The work under the above contracts is virtually completed and is
being pushed along as rapidly as possible. We are now in a position
to proceed with landscaping and road building which are logically the
last things to be done. Contracts for these have not been let, but soon
will be.
A residence building for the superintendent has long been needed
and desired and is a part of the present building plan. A definite time
for the commencement for this structure has not been set.
We are pleased with what has been accomplished and we feel that
when you inspect your properties on Wednesday, you will leave with
a feeling of pride in the accomplishment.

To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Fifty-Seventh Annual Report, for the year ending July 31, 1949,
together with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes, and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met on October 15, 1948, after the adjournment of Grand Lodge, for the purpose of organization, but the election
of officers was postponed until November 13, 1948. The election of
Ellsworth Meyer, Deputy Grand Master, Arthur Paulsen, Senior
Grand Warden, and Louis Drapeau, Junior Grand Warden, were formally reported to the Board.
On November 13 the Board organized for the ensuing year by
electing the following officers:
Charles M. Wollenberg, President
Ellsworth Meyer, Vice-President
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge, F.
& A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling is
Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, F.
& A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary
of the Masonic Homes of California.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Term expires
Chas. Albert Adams .................... 1949.............................. Myron E. Smith
Charles M. Wollenberg .............. 1950.................................... Ralph Head
L. Harold Anderson .................... 1951 ................................ Leonard Gross
BUILDING OPERATIONS

Last year the Board reported the program to date on the building
operations at Decato. We think you would be interested now in a rather
complete statement of what has been done.
The plans for rehabilitation, new construction and reconstruction.
which were approved by the Board in the very beginning of the program
included two additional wards for the care of hospital cases; a home for
the nurses and other female help, consisting of 41 rooms with all conveniences to attract competent, permanent help: the rebuilding of the
dormitory building, converting the first floor into five apartments for
married employees, and the second floor into adequate quarters for
single men: additions and remodeling of the domestic building, providing
a dining room for employees, a dining room for special diets, a new

ENTERTAINMENT

The report of Superintendent Eubanks reveals some interesting
facts relative to the entertainment of our aged residents at Decato. The
Home, as you all know, is located distant from any large city, and the
average age of the residents makes it impractical for them to leave the
Home at night to seek entertainment. It is equally evident that they must
be provided with recreation and entertainment beyond reading and a
variety of individual and small group games, all of which is, however,
enjoyed by most of them.
To meet this situation, regular weekly programs are scheduled, as
follows:
Monday ......................................................................Cards and Television
Tuesday .................:............."...:.'.;...........................Dancing and Television
Wednesday ....................... ,.... Cards, Television and Community singing
Thursday .................................................................:....................-....Mdflet

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Friday ·······-···························Cards, Television and Community singing
Saturday ............................-....Cards, Television and Community singing
Sunday ................................ Devotional services, and Community singing

In addition to this, special programs are provided, and for a typical
period, we here set forth the programs presented from May 7 to June
12, both inclusive:
May 7 ................................................................Stanislaus Lodge Program
May 13 ....................•...............G. M. night program by members of Home
May 21 ............................ Trustees night program by members of Home
May 30 .............................. Memorial Day Services by members of Home
June 5 ....................................Officers Association 30th District Program
June 12 ............•.......................................•......
.Islam Temple Band Program
.

.

The Lodges have made good use of the Masonic Hall at Decato
and during this same period, conferred two First Degrees, two Second
Degrees and six Third Degrees. Many expressions of approval have
come to the Board for the splendid new seating facilities which have
been provided and the residents are particularly pleased with the new
elevator which has been installed.
FINANCES

It appears that the years when the Board did not have to worry
especially over finances are over. During the period of great growth
during the war, adequate funds were available, not only for operations,
but reserves were laid aside for future building programs. In addition
to this, your Board tr an sferred to the Endowment Fund the sum of
$300,000.00 from its surplus.
We are presenting to you herewith a summary of income and expense
for each year commencing with 1940, the figures being those as of the
close of the fiscal year, July 31, in each case:
SUMMARY OF INCOME AND COST

Year ending July 31st
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949

Endowment
Income

Homes
Contribution

Per Capita
&Misc.

Total
Income

Maintenance
Cost

36,051.72
46,941.76
39,812.44
43,160.86
55,725.91
68,145.14
54,797.53
62,706.11
78,822.07
85,8.77.51

86,650.00
84,695.00
96,995.00
163,800.00
303,875.00
388.850.00
382,350.00
389,250.00
314,425.00
270,125.00

167,083.47 290,785.19 286,584.02
161.469.22 293,105.98 281,939.78
169,815.53 306,622.97 273,487.04
169,555.50 376,516.36 259,787.17
166,110.24 525,711.15 257,085.75
164,885.91 621,881.05 263,766.33
145,697.95 582,845.48 292,244.06
116,799.32 568,755.43 368,933.72
37,521.49 430,768.56 462,070.84
35,437.03 391,439.54 472,353.74

117

A study of the above figures, commencing with 1940, indicates a
balance between income and expenditures which continued through
1941. Beginning with 1942, income began to rise and maintenance cost
actually decreased. Since 1946 costs have risen sharply, due principally
to the withdrawal of price controls and a rapid rise in wages and salaries.
The cost of labor and materials, food, etcetera, is a part of the total
economic structure, and not subject to the control of your Board. In
1949, the maintenance cost will be seen to have exceeded income by a
' little more than $80,000.00.
The surplus and reserves built up during the years of high income
have been spent in the building operations at both Homes. The Covina
properties have been brought to a high state of rehabilitation and replacement of equipment, at a cost of approximately $225,000.00. The
rehabilitation, reconstruction and new construction at Decato, most of
which has been completed, will approximate $750,000.00. The Board
believes that Grand Lodge approves the action of the Board in the
expenditure of these reserves, rather than making an assessment upon
the Lodges to accomplish the result. At the request of the Board, Grand
Lodge relieved the Lodges entirely of a per capita tax during the
"good" years. It is our hope and expectation that we will be able to
operate during this current year within the funds at our disposal. We
do not, however, feel that it is safe to enter the year commencing August
1, 1950 without additional income, and we therefore recommend that
an additional 50c per capita be levied for the maintenance of the Masonic Homes.
VISITATIONS TO COVINA

Visitations by lodges to the Home for Children at Covina have
reached such proportions and present so many problems that your board
must take action by way of limiting them. Almost without exception
from two to twelve lodges visit the home each Sunday of the year.
During , May 1949 lodge visitations were responsible for 1,812
visitors in addition to the regular number of friends and relatives of the
children. Each group requires the assignment of guides and the result
has been that some children must make as high as eight tours of the
grounds on a single Sunday. Most visitors find one tour to be sufficiently
extensive to be tiring and it is not reasonable to permit such demands to
be placed upon the children on their day of rest.
These visitations at present eliminate any possibility of rest or recreation on Sundays. They introduce other problems also. Request is always
made that the visitors refrain from tipping their guides and that if they
feel moved to make a donation that they make it for all the children.
Little heed is paid to this request and it is the rule rather than the exception to slip the guide a dollar or two. Each child receives his needs
and spending money from the home and tips received on the side are

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

pocketed and encourage a breaking of rules and regulations necessary
to the welfare of all. This practice also contributes toward eliminating
any sense of service or friendship in guiding groups and leads toward
the placing of a pecuniary value upon lodge visitations.
Unfortunately many lodges do not notify the Superintendent that
they are coming and the flrst knowledge of the visit is the arrival of
forty or fifty visitors. Not infrequently the lodge plans to have a picnic
lunch in a public park in Covina and as there is a limit upon the number
using the city's park for such purpose, problems of public relations with
the municipal authorities are introduced.
The Board of Trustees appreciates the continuing interest of lodges
evidenced by the visitations, but is confident that members of the craft
share the opinion that the home is maintained flrst and foremost for
the children and not as an exhibition. It is therefore necessary to order
that after November l, 1949 group visitations by lodges or other
organizations will be permitted only on the flrst and third Sunday of
each month. No change is ordered as to the existing rules governing
single visitations of relatives of the children.

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home

118

CHAS. M. WoLLENBERG, President
ELLSWORTH MEYER, Vice-President
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
LEONARD GROSS
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
RALPH H. HEAD
MYRON E. SMITH
ARTHUR PAULSON
Loms c. DRAPEAU

119

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: I present, herewith, the Superintendent's report of the Masonic Home at Decato for the year ending July 31, 1949.
At the beginning of the year 180 women and 121 men were comfortably housed in the Home. During the year 21 women were admitted at
an average age of 79.54 and 28 men, average age 75.96. During the same
period we lost by death 29 women, average age 80.31, and 25 . men,
average age 73.8, leaving at the end of the year 172 women and 123
men. the average age for women 78.81 and for men 77.95, a total of 295.
Included in this number are 12 married couples.
Our records indicate that 1596 members, their wives or widows,
have been admitted to the Home; 582 women, 1014 men passed away
and 81 men and women were withdrawn. The records further indicate
that 656 are buried in the Home Plot and 859 were returned to their
Lodges for burial, since the Home was dedicated in 1898.
The health condition of the residents of the Home during the year
has been good. However, due to the inflrmatives common to old age, the
east wing on the fourth floor and the hospital facilities have been constantly taxed. Miss Esther G. Payne is still rendering valuable service
in these departments.
Many enjoyable parties and programs have been planned and presented during the year by members of the Home. These functions are
enjoyed immensely by the residents and tend to create a closer bond
between them, and a very desirable atmosphere in the Home. These activities are under the supervision of Mrs. Lotd, who lends much toward
their success. All departments in the Home are completely staffed and
operating satisfactorily.
We have practiced, throughout the year, every economy consistent
with maintaining a high standard, however, our operating cost is still
mounting. This condtion. I am sure you will agree, is general and will
continue until the general economic conditions throughout the country
become stabilized.
There has been no change in the lease of the farm land. Receipts
from that portion reserved for the Home's use are as follows:·
Fresh fruit .......................................................... $ 50.00
Dried ( '48 crop) apricots......... ,..........................
265.00
Hay ......................................................................
300.00
Meat, Pork, 41 carcasses.................................... 2,329.44
Walnuts ..............................................................
80.00
Vegetables ............................... ~..........................
276.95
Total

$3,301.39

120

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We express our deep appreciation to the Lodges and various groups
for the excellent programs they brought to the Home during the past
year. A complete list will be found elsewhere in our report.
The East Bay Past Matrons Association's reception of the Worthy
Grand Matron Elvetta Grahl and her corps of officers was held at the
Home on August 14. This is also the Association's jelly and jam day.
We shall be ever grateful to these ladies for their generosity. This year
they presented the Home with 13,000 jars and glasses of jams and
jellies.
The East Bay Masters & Wardens, Arthur H. Triggs, President,
made their annual visit to the Home and presented an excellent program
on August 15, 1948.
On January 16, Brother Clarence Glaze of 909 E. Colorado Street,
Glendale, on behalf of the 86th Masonic District, had a Zenith Tele..
vision set .flown to the Home and installed. Later on in the year the
Brothers of that district, through the good offices of Brother Glaze,
installed another set and on the evening of May 21 the sets were offi..
cially presented to the Home by Brother Glaze and graciously accepted
by Grand Master Edward H. Siems.
We are indeed grateful to the · following film distributing companies
for the excellent programs which they provide gratis each week:
R. K. 0., Columbia, United Artists, Warner Bros., M.G.M., and
Twentieth Century Fox.
The devotional services of the Home are taken care of by the
Southern Alameda County Ministerial Association. The messages they
bring are inspirational and are apprecated by the residents of the Home.
Our library is kept well supplied with up-to-date reading material,
which enables our residents to keep well posted on happenings of the
day.
The Trustees of the Home, individually and collectively, have
honored us with many visits during the year. Their wise counsel and
kindly advice is always appreciated.
Our Grand Master Edward Siems and our Grand Secretary, Lloyd
E. Wilson, are frequent visitors to the Home. The Home also profited
by their many visits.
To the officers and employees of the Home we wish to express our
appreciation for their loyalty and good service and to the members of
the Home we extend our sincere thanks for their kind cooperation.
Respectfully submitted,

J. R. EUBANKS
Superintendent.

121

Report Of The Superintendent-Covina Home
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with a great deal of pleasure and gratitude that I present my
ftrst annual report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children
at Covina, for the year ending July 31, 1949.
Ho ME MEMBERSHIP:
This past year has brought a slight decrease in membership of the
1 Home. During the year fifteen children have left us. Five by graduation
from High School and ten to their homes to live with parents, and rela..
tives. Three of these were to homes re~established by re-marriage of
the parents. The population is now fifty-nine. There are forty boys and
nineteen girls. Seven boys and three girls were admitted to the Home
durig this period. Of the five boys graduated from Covina High School
-two entered the service of the United States Navy; two obtained
positions that are self-supporting; one will enter Junior College this fall.
Children
Families
Family Status
Orphans
6
5
H/0 Fathers living
12
7
H/0 Mothers living
22
16
Both parents living
19
11
59
39
Family relationship within the Home consists of the following: One
family of four children; two families of three children each: twelve
families of two children each; twenty-five families of one child. Of the
fifty-nine children, twenty-five are in High School: thirty-four in Grammar School. Twelve children representing eight families are in the
Home under membership of the grandparent. Total number of Lodges
having wards in the Home-thirty~nine.
ScHOOL AND COMMUNITY AcTIVITIES:

The children are encouraged to participate in all school activities
and community youth programs. Each child attends church of his
choice. Fourteen of our senior boys are represented in the Washington
Chapter, Order of De Malay, and six of our senior girls are members
of Bethel No. 98, Order of Job's Daughters.
SUMMER PROGRAM:

With success and happiness the children have completed an extensive summer program. It is our belief tliat a summer camping experience
is a necessary part of every growing child's training. With this in mind
nearly every child attended summei: camp. Our senior boys, under the
direction of the Superintendent, toured the northern part of the state
of California, visiting at Sequoia, Yosemite, Bass Lake, Tuolumne

122

123

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Meadows, Lake Tahoe, San Francisco, Grand Lodge, the Decoto Homfit
and Big Sur Park. Fishing, hiking, swimming and horseback ridinl
were among the many valuable experiences gained from living in the
out-of-doors and were enjoyed by every boy participating.
With Mrs. Henry in charge of a very competant staff, the seniot:
intermediate and junior girls alternated with the intermediate and
junior boys in enjoying the camping, fishing, and beach facilities at San
Clemente State Beach Park on the South Orange coastline. Each group
remained for three weeks at this camp. Each staff member at our beach
camp had been trained in this specific type of work, thus insuring our
children not only a good time, but the full benefit of training that comes
from summer camping.

out the year, both at the Home and as guests of various Lodges. Through
participation in a softball league in our community. by the Home's
baseball team, a closer bond has been formed between the boys of the
Masonic Home and others of the community. Out of six league games
our boys won four. Out of sixteen practice games they won thirteen.

LODGE. VISITATIONS:

Seventy-two Lodges and affiliated Masonic organizations visited
the Home during the year. Enjoyment of greeting our Masonic friends
and their families and appreciation of their keen interest in the Home
and our program for the children's welfare is an inspiration for the
children and staff alike. The generosity of the Lodges in bringing candy,
jams, jellies, and playing equipment is sincerely appreciated. These
gifts are recorded in another section of the Home's Report. Lodge
visitations for the month of May totaled one thousand, eight hundred.
twelve guests.
ENTERTAINMENT:

Through the untiring efforts of many Lodges and individuals, the
children have been well supplied this year- with the highest caliber of
entertainment. A portion of this entertainment was provided by tht'
following: Silver Trowel Lodge made possible a dance at the Home
for the older boys and girls and their friends. Monrovia Lodge and
Sojourner Lodge combined their efforts to provide their twenty-sixth
annual Christ~as party and vaudeville show. Carmelita Lodge and Al
Bahr Shrine Clowns of San Diego each gave a Christmas party at the
Home. El Sereno Pyramid No. 50, A.E.O.S. presented a Christmas
vaudeville show at our Little Theatre. San Pasqual Lodge was the
children's gracious host at the Pasadena Tournament of Roses. Attendance at the circus, vaudeville shows. Magic Wonder Show were
highlights in the entertainment program. A more complete list of entertainment activities will be found elsewhere.
Friday evening is "Movie Night" at the Home. Both features and
comedy pictures have been provided by six major studios: Columbia
Pictures Corporation: Lowe's Incorporated: RKO Radio Pictures In·
corporated; Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation; Universal Film.
Exchanges, Incorporated; Warner Brothers Pictures.
In addition, the children have provided various programs through ...

HEALTH PROGRAM:

Through an intensive health program stressing prevention, we are
happy to report we have had no serious health problems. Five appendectomies, two cases of fractures and minor surgery are recorded. Physical
examinations made at regular intervals by Dr. W. P. Magan and
associates, give a complete record of the growth of the child, with immunization against smallpox, diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis but a
small part of our prevention program. Additional nourishment and rest,
vitamin supplement, together with careful control of menu planning,
making certain of dietary values; are contributing factors to our enjoying good health this past year. The encouragement of children and
the acceptance by them, to attend the daily clinic, learning to assume
their responsibility in helping the nurses and doctors keep them in good
health, is very gratifying. Periodic eye examinations, securing glasses
prescribed, insures our children of the best possible care. Three children
are receiving special orthodontia treatment by Dr. T. W. Paul and
Dr. Ellwood Laine. Our visiting dentists treated sixty-eight cases
during the year. The daily average of bed patients for the year was 1.5,
while on the other hand, visits to the nurse at the Home clinic averaged
16.9 per day, for the year. We are deeply gratful to our doctors and
nurses for their untiring devotion to the health of the children in this
growing stage.
FARM AND GROUNDS:

This year an intensive program has been carried forth on our farm
and grounds. New lawns, many beautiful flowers and shrubs have been
planted thus enhancing the beauty. On our farm the real change has
taken place. The old piggery has been torn down and an attractive new
one built on the lower land, with a new fence allowing for the future of
an animal husbandry program to be carried on by the children. A new
fence enclosing the larger pasture has replaced the old. affording
necessary space for the care of animals. Children in training are thus
furnished an opportunity for expression in animal husbandry. All of
this work has taken place this summer and the entire project, under
the direction and supervision of our farmer, has been accomplished by
our senior boys. A great deal of hard work, extremely valuable training, as well as money earned toward the purchase of clothing, has been
the result of this farm endeavor. These benefits have more than justified
our efforts in this training program.

124

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

125

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION

HOME ALUMNI:

The Home must look to its Alumni as an important and influential
body. Here we have the children of yesterday-they, more than any·
one else, know how the children live, think, and are motivated, realizing
fully what the Home offers to those in its care. These Alumni have
served in a valuable manner to our children and the children look to
them many times for help and guidance. Their return is encouraged
and the mixing and re-uniting serve a valuable purpose. A creditable
representation of the Alumni visits the Home. The annual custom of
Reunion Day, in bringing their families to visit, was observed in September by an excellent attendance. The Alumni Reunion Dinner in
San Francisco was also well atteded, at which time the Home technicolor
movie was shown. A copy of the annual Alumni Newsletter No. 23 has
been distributed to every Alumnus. The Newsletter, which is in book
form, contains approximately fifty pages, and keeps Alumni abreast
not only of the present activities of the Home, but also of the advancements and achievements of all Alumni.
In conclusion may I express the sincere appreciation, not only of myself, but of our entire Home Family, for your guidance and direction,
that the best interests of the children have always been served.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY

Superintendent
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
See special appendix for Financial and Statistical tabulations.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Segregation to which has been referred the message of the Most Worshipful Grand Master begs leave to render the
following report:
We recommend that the following portions of the message be re·
ferred to the Committees detailed below:
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. Grand Master's action regarding minimum dues.
2. All decisions of the Grand Master numbered one to four, in·
clusive.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purpose and Jurisprudence:
1. Amending Section 53, 3rd line as recommended by the Grand
Master.
2. Rescinding Sections 647 and 648 Edicts and Resolutions.
3. The matter of repealing Sections 243a and 243b and adopting
additional legislation as recommended by the Grand Master.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purpose:
1. The matter of outdoor degree as reported.
2. The matter of a Masonic Club within a Lodge.
To the Committee on Grievances:
1. The matter regarding suspension of Master as reported.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purpose and Finance:
1. The matter of Budgeting travel and hotel funds for policy con•
ferences by Grand Lodge Officers and Committees as recommended by the Grand Master.
2. The matter of hotel expenses of appointed Grand Lodge Officers
during Grand Lodge Week.
To the Committee on Finance:
1. That portion of the Grand Master's message marked "Exhibit
D" regarding the architect's fees of $750.00.
2. That portion of the Grand Master's message on special relief to
Ecuador.
3. The appropriation of $455.00 to cover the increased cost of new
regalia.
4. Additional expenses referred to as detailed in Auditor's report.
This Grand Jurisdiction can be justly proud of the record of the

126

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Master. His love for the fraternity, his kindness to the brethren
and his willingness to cooperate with all has made this year one to be
remembered. He has, as stated in his message, used common sense and
Masonic understanding in all his contacts.
The report of the Grand Secretary has also been referred to this
Committee. We recommend that it be segregated and referred as
follows:
To the Committees on Policy and General Purpose and Finance:
I. The recommendation that Westchester Lodge U.D. be excused
from payment of per capita tax as reported.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
I. The matter of Life Memberships as enacted or revised by con·
stituent Lodges.
2. The matter of special dispensations issued for various purposes.
3. The matter of providing for change of meeting place.
To the Committee on By~Laws:
I. All amendments to By~Laws by constituent Lodges.
To the Committee on Grievances:
1. All trial records.
To the Committees on Endowment and Finance:
1. The request of AFE Irwin Lodge No. 645 for return of an
overpayment to the Endowment Fund of $170.00.
Nothing but the highest praise can be given to our Grand Secretary
and his staff for the splendid conduct of his office.
The report of the Grand Treasurer has also been referred to this
Committee and we recommend that it be referred as follows:
To the· Committees on Policy and General Purpose, Endowment
·
Board and Finance:
1. The recommendation of the Grand Treasurer for extending
scope of Grand Lodge investments by adopting the "Prudent
Man Rule."
To the Committee on Policy and General Purpose:
1. The Grand Treasurer's recommendation to allow constituent
Lodges also to follow the "Prudent Man Rule" in investment of
their securities.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purpose, Jurisprudence,
Trustees of Masonic Homes and Finance:
1. The consideration of a draft of proposed agreement between

127

this Grand Lodge and Masonic Homes of California and the

Anglo~California National Bank.

The report of the Grand Treasurer demonstrates the wisdom in
fPpointing an Assistant Grand Treasurer. This Gran.cl Jurisdiction is
Indeed fortunate in having the services of two such capable men in the
fteld of investments.
The report of the Grand Lecturer has also been referred to this
Committee. The report speaks for itself. This Committee wishes to
commend the Grand Lecturer and his assistants for the excellent stand~
ard of the ritualistic work of this Grand Jurisdiction.
Respectfully submitted:

S. L. HAWKEN
Adopted.

Rov T. KIELE
JOHN R. GARSIDE

At 4:38 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Tuesday.

128

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

entitled "Notice of Receipt of Application" to read as follows:

IN GRAND LODGE

"Before the next Stated Meeting after its receipt, the
Secretary shall mail a notice to each member of the Lodge
at his usual address, that the application has been received.
Such notice shall contain the full name, age, occupation,
residence and business address of the applicant."

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1949
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
The invocation was given by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master called attention to the presence of Past Grand
Master James T. Fraser.
The Grand Secretary read telegrams of congratulations from Past
Grand Master Samuel E. Burke and from the International Orde rof
Jobs Daughters.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday,
October 10th, were read and approved.

Respectfully submitted,

'

REGINALD R. NEWMAN, P. M., Oxnard No. 341
WILLIAM W. McKEE, P. M., LaCumbre No. 642
CHARLES T. MEDLER, P . M .• Southern California No. 278
RALPH C. HINE, P. M., Magnolia No. 242
GUSTAF A. B. QmcK, P. M., Santa Paula No. 291
The above resolution was referred to the Jurisprudence Committee,
but the Grand Master subsequently ruled that, since the legislation
proposed was not identical with that defeated at the 1944 Annual
Communication, it would be necessary to again act upon the matter of
Policy, and he accordingly referred the Resolution to the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes, and to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary read the following resolutions which were
referred to Committees as noted:

List of Applicants
WHEREAS, At its Ninety-fourth Annual Communication, the
Grand Lodge of California adopted as POLICY the following recom·
mendation of Past Grand Master Leslie E. Wood:

Method of Receiving a Plea of Guilty

"If recommend that our Lodges be required to notify their
members of all applications for the Degree and for Affiliation, within ten days after their reception by the Lodge,
that the notice shall carry the full names, residence and
business addresses and the age and occupations of the
Applicants."
and
WHEREAS, Legislation to carry out the purpose of the recom·
mendation failed of adoption at the Ninety-fifth Annual Communication,
and
WHEREAS, It has become increasingly apparent during the inter..
vening years, for the reasons advanced at the time of the adoption of
the Policy, that Legislation is necessary and advisable to carry out its
purpose,
NOW THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED, That the ordinances
of the Grand Lodge of California be.amended by the addition in Article
V or Part 11 thereof. of a section to be known as Section 224-A, and

129

&

1

RESOLVED, That a new section be added to the Ordinances of
the Grand Lodge of California reading as follows:
SEC. 309.1 After being served with a summons and a copy of the
charge and specifications, and not later than the time appointed for the
trial, the accused may present to the Master a written admission of the
charge and all the specifications, categorically admitting the charge and
all the specifications, signed by him, and resign all of his rights and
privileges as a Master Mason with prejudice and consent and agree
that he shall thenceforth stand expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry. If the Master shall determine that there is a complete
admission of the charge and of the specifications, and an unconditional
resignation with prejudice, no further proceedings in the way of trial
shall be necessary. From the date of said resignation, said accused
shall stand expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry the
same as though he had been regularly tried and convicted of unmasonic
conduct with the penalty fixed _at expulsion. The secretary shall make
up a trial record, the same shall be certified by the Master and Secretary,
a copy thereof shall be filed in the archives of the Lodge, and the original
transmitted to the Grand Secretary, and thereafter the case shall be
referred to the Grievance Committee for report and action at the next

130

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Annual Communication of Grand Lodge in accordance with the regular
procedure prescribed in the Ordinances.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR PAULSEN, P. M.

Trinity Lodge No. 27
WARREN E. LIBBY, P. M.

Blackmer Lodge No. 442
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Transfer of Membership to New Lodge
At the present time an ambiguous situation regarding membership
occurs by reason of the operation of Section 162, paragraph 3rd of the
Ordinances of Grand Lodge which provides that: "One may acquire
membership in a Lodge by having been named in a dispensation for a
new Lodge as one of the petitioners therefor." Since frequently a
considerable length of time may elapse between the issuance of a dispensation and the creation of the new Lodge by Institution, the brethren
named in the dispensation are, apparently, members of a non-existent
Lodge, and lose their Masonic standing until the Institution of their
new Lodge, because of the effect of Section 175, which provides that
the membership of the signer of the petition for a dispensation shall
cease in his old Lodge upon the granting of the dispensation. The undersigned are of the opinion that the petitioning brothers should be members
of an existing Lodge at all times and therefore propose the following
resolution:
That paragraph 3rd of Sec. 162 be stricken and the following inserted in lieu thereof:
"3rd. By having been a petitioner named in a dispensation for a new Lodge as of date of institution."
That Section 175 be amended by inserting the words, "as of date
of institution" after the words "shall ipso factor cease".
Respectfully submitted,
GLENN C. HOLMES
WILLIAM R. HERVEY, JR.
WM. J. WILLIAMS
HAROLD MEYER
JAMES M. MACDONALD
WALTER A. PARKER
KENNETH R. FORD

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
the Committee on Jurisprudence.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

131

Number of Members in New Lodge
As a result of our scrutiny of the Lodges under dispensation the
undersigned are of the opinion that under present day circumstances a
petitioning group having only twelve members would find the utmost
difficulty in establishing a Lodge on a sound and permanent basis. In
fact, there is good reason to believe that a larger number than the
present maximum would give additional strength and stability to any
group entering upon the arduous task of creating a Masonic Lodge.
Therefore, we propose the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That Section 101 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge
be amended by striking out the present minimum of twelve, and maximum of twenty-five, and substituting therefor a minimum of twenty-five
and a maximum of fifty, as the number of Masons who may petition
for a dispensation for a new Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
GLENN C. HOLMES
WILLIAM R. HERVEY, }R.
WM.
WILLIAMS
HAROLD MEYER
}AMES M. MACDONALD
WALTER A. PARKER
KENNETH R. FORD

J.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the
Committee on Jurisprudence.

Investment Committee
RESOLVED, that the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended by
striking therefrom Paragraph 2 of Section 86 which reads as follows:
There shall be a Committee on Investment of Endowment
Funds consisting of the Grand Treasurer, and the Chairman (or some member designated by him) of the Jurisprudence Committee, the Finance Committee, the Board
of Trustees of the Masonic Homes, and the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Ordinances of Grand
Lodge be amended by striking therefrom Section 721 which reads as
follows:
RESOLVED, That funds of the Endowment Fund be
invested only in Federal. State, County or Municipal
bonds legal for savings banks.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Ordinances of the
Grand Lodge be amended by striking therefrom Section 655.

132

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
STANDING RESOLUTION

BE IT RESOLVED, That the following Standing Resolution be
adopted:
There shall be an Investment Committee of five members consisting
of the Grand Treasurer, who shall act as Chairman, the President of
the Masonic Homes Board, the Chairman of the Finance Committee,
and two additional members who shall be appointed by the foregoing
with the approval of the Grand Master; one to serve for 1 year, and
one to serve for 2 years. In the case of a vacancy or vacancies of an
appointed member or members, the remaining members of the Committee shall, with the consent of the Grand Master, fill such vacancy or
vacancies for the unexpired term. Upon expiration of the respective
terms, a successor shall be appointed in the same manner for a term of
3 years. The Investment Committee shall have the power to invest and
re-invest the funds belonging to or held in trust by the Grand Lodge,
and a majority of the Committee shall be empowered to act for and on
behalf of the Committee. The Investment Committee or a majority
thereof is authorized to acquire every kind of investments in the nature
of securities, specifically including, but not by way of limitation, corporate obligations of every kind, and stocks, preferred or common, which
men of prudence, discretion and intelligence acquire for their own
account. The Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary shall be em~
powered to sign such documents as may be necessary to carry out the
actions of the Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING, P. G. M.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to the
Committee on Jurisprudence, and to the Committee on Finance.

Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse
In the course of events in ~he activities of the small lodges, particularly those with membership less than 100, the permissible expenditures
of 20% for Masonic intercourse does not provide sufficient funds to
effectively meet the needs for those fraternal activities which are necessary to the benefit of the Craft. Most lodges of 100 or less members
are old lodges with a small overhead who own their own Temple, with
no rent to pay. The cost _of those activities today is relatively high
compared to income, at the time the 20% was established.
Therefore the following resolution is offered:
WHEREAS, The 20% of net income provided in Section 159 of
the Constitution does not provide sufficient funds to carry on Masonic

133

activities in an adequate manner in lodges having a membership less
than 100; and
. WHEREAS, T~e promotion of Masonry by a lodge during the
time of refreshment is an essential function of the Lodge;
NOW_ T~EREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED, That Section 159 of
the Constitution be amended by adding between the first and second
sentence, the following:
"Lodges with a membership less than 100, who own their T~mple
Building free of "incumbrance, may expend not to exceed 1001.
f "t
/001S
tota1 net revenue.
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES A. PALMER, Senior Warden

Ophir Lodge No. 33
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
Committee on Jurisprudence.

134

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

When completed, this new standard practice system was set up
within our Employment Offices. After one year of operation the Board
of Control felt that it had proved so successful that it was decided to
extend the system to include Boards of Relief.
This report reflects the result of the first complete year of operation
for all Boards of Relief under this uniform system and again the Board
of Control feels that the project is truly successful. Grand Lodge will
now have figures from records that are uniform, accurate, subject to easy
audit and are comparable. By the use of this system of records the
Boards of Relief can be operated more economically and efficiently.
An important feature of our present standard practice system is
that it is so set up that changes can easily be made within its instructions
should the occasion require.
·

The Board of Control submits herewith its 19th report to Grand
Lodge setting forth che results of the past year as shown by the annual
reports of Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus.
By ordinance, Grand Lodge has charged the Board of Control with
the responsibility of control and supervision of the activities of Bo~rds
of Relief and Employment Bureaus, making such rules and regulations
as it shall deem necessary for their effectual operation and to endeavor
to so standardize the work that their operation may be conducted economically and efficiently. This report will in itsel~ refle~t the v:ork ~f
the Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus in their relationship
with the Board of Control and will indicate that the Board of Control
has worked diligently and faithfully to accomplish these ends. It will
also show that they have been materially aided in their work by the
close cooperation of the Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus
and those Brothers who are active in the work of administering relief.

The book of instructions, which has been placed in the hands of all
Boards of Relief, is known as "Standard Practice Bulletin for Masonic
Boards of Relief and Employment Services." It is made up of fifteen
bulletins of some 47 pages and contains thirty-two illustrations of reports
and accounting and statistical forms.
During the year the Grand Secretary received letters of criticism
of the services of two of our offices. Both cases were referred to the
Board of Control for investigation. We are pleased to report that the
action of the Board on both cases absolved the office of any blame. The
first case was based upon the question of eligibility to register for employment. The Board ruled that the manager of the Employment Bureau
was correct in refusing to register one who was not eligible to use our
service. The second complaint was from a brother who claimed a need
for relief. Our investigation showed that his request had been received
but that he had failed to cooperate or answer questions necessary to
establish his need. He simply demanded $50 for immediate use. His
Lodge had been contacted by our Board of Relief and they wrote to
him offering their help. He would not answer their letters. Everything
was done to secure his cooperation without success. The Board feels
that the Secretary was patient, understanding and efficient in his handling of the case.

BoARD OP CONTROL

The Board of Control is made up of five members who have been so
selected geographically as to best serve the interests of those Boards of
Relief within their immediate or adjacent territory. At present the
Board members come from San Diego, Los Angeles, Fresno, San Francisco and Sacramento.
During the past year the Board of Control has ?eld meetings in S~n
Francisco, during last Grand Lodge, Glendale tn February and tn
Berkeley in June. All members of the Board were in attenda~ce at these
meetings. This represents more than one hundred ho~rs of time dev.oted
to the work of relief and employment by the Board in actual meetings.
In addition much time has been given by individual members of the
Board in working out specific problems assigned to them and in advising, counseling and corresponding with Boards of Relief and in the
analysis of audits and reports.
Two years ago the Board of Control, with the consent of the ~ra~d
Master, employed a nationally known firm of accountants to assist in
the preparation of a uniform method of handling records and in accounting procedure, so that when followed, the financial data and statistical
information accumulated at each office and the reports thereon would
be uniform and comparable. The data recorded and the substantiating
documents to be maintained in a manner which would make it feasible
to audit the transactions of each office with a minimum amount of work.
Forms for use in the various Employment Offices were to be made uniform.

135

It is the custom of some Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus
to hold an annual Breakfast to honor the Grand Master and to promote
the work of their office in the handling of relief and employment. This
year members of the Board of Control attended the breakfasts at Los
Angeles, Long Beach, Fresno and Sacramento. Other breakfasts were
attended under the auspices of Masters and Wardens associations.
San Jose Board of Relief breakfast was held in observance of constitution observance month and the Junior Grand Warden was the honored
guest.

•

This year we received several letters from other jurisdictions and
from service bureaus requesting information concerning the operation

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of our Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. Being proud of the
work of our offices we were glad to be able to answer these letters and
brag upon the accomplishments and success they have achieved.
The Grand Master and the Board of Control approved the application of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580, EI Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
and Cross Roads Lodge No. 696 to join the San Diego Board of Relief.
We welcome them to the group of Lodges now making up the personnel
of our Boards of Relief.
The Lodges of the 91 st Masonic District applied for permission to
organize a Board of Relief and, upon approval of the Grand M~ster and
the Board of Control, the San Gabriel Valley Board of Relief came
into existence. The seven Lodges which have signed the approved
compact and by~laws are:
Alhambra Lodge No. 322
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367
Ramona Lodge No. 457
San Gabriel Lodge No, 546
Granada Lodge No. 608
Temple City Lodge No. 612
San Marino Lodge No. 685.
.
The Lodges of Santa Maria, having complied with the reqmrements,
asked permission to form a Board of Relief. Upon the approval of the
Grand Master and the Board of Control, Guadalupe Lodge No. 237
and Hesperian Lodge No. 264 were authorized to organize the Santa
Maria Board of Relief.
One Board of Relief has petitioned the Board of Control for permission to organize an Employment Bureau. A second. Board of Rel~ef
has requested the Board of Control for audience to discuss the advisability of their opening an Employment Office. A group of Masters and
Wardens have asked us to consider the establishment of a Board of
Relief within their community. These are all to be considered at the
present meeting of the Board of Co~trol.
BOARDS OF RELIEF

With the addition of the two new Boards this year, we now report
that we have nineteen Boards of Relief operating within our jurisdiction. This represents 277 Lodges with a membership of 117,040.
Grand Lodge (under Section 264 of Ross' s Digest) permits Lodges
having concurrent jurisdiction to form Boards of Relief for the purpose
of properly relieving the distress of visiting Masons, their widows and
orphans and those dependent upon them who might be entitled to relief
from a Masonic Lodge. "Such Boards shall report annually to Grand
Lodge, showing their work, receipts and disbursements in d~tail, specifying separately what, if any, has been expended ~or re.he£ ~f nonaffiliated Masons, their widows and orphans therein SOJOU~i~~· of
this or other jurisdictions, and how much, if any, has been repaid.

137

Each Board of Relief has on file with the Board of Control a complete and detailed· financial and statistical report. All figures contained
therein have been subject to audit and are all open for examination by
those who may be interested.
For the purpose of this report only the combined totals which these
reports have produced will be shown:
Funerals conducted 886
Service calls 14, 725
Receipts $81,724.00 (Income)
Disbursements $82,008.00 ( Expensa)
Relief advanced $43,745.00
Repaid $43,442.00
The total of the surplus account of our Boards of Relief is $70,341.00.
EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

Boards of Relief may establish and maintain Employment Bureaus
where careful survey indicates that such service is warranted in securing
employment for those who otherwise might be entitled to relief from a
Masonic Lodge.
Within this jurisdiction we are now operating seven such offices,
East Bay, Fresno, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Sacramento, San Diego
and San Francisco. The offices in the East Bay and Los Angeles employ
a full time manager whereas the other five offices combine the duties
of Manager of the Employment Bureau with that of Secretary of the
Board of Relief.
These Employment Bureaus are supported in part by the local per
capita tax and partly from an appropriation from Grand Lodge. Under
a ruling by the Board of Control and contained within the instructions
on Bulletin 12 Sheet No. 3 of the Standard Practice Bulletin, Grand
Lodge will not contribute an amount greater than the Lodges per capita
allocated to employment.
A summary of the reports submitted show the following as a result
of their years work:
Number of Lodges 222
Membership 97,537
Applications received 11,509
Placements 2,848 or 25%
Positions offered by employers 8,837
Fees saved those placed in employment are based upon an average
of the State of California's prescribed maximum which may be charged
by commercial agencies and are maintained for comparative purposes.
Our Brothers were saved these fees this year in the amount of $174,642.
This has been a trying year for Employment Managers. Layoffs,
strikes, union closed shops and the caring for their own members together with a general slackening of employment have created difficult
problems for our Employment Bureaus.

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

One of our constant problems is the large number of applications
from the older age group. These people are always hard to place in
jobs. They are a constant source of worry to our Employment Managers.
Many methods have been tried in an effort to relieve this situation.
Recently a plan was developed in the East Bay which has been successful enough to justify its mention here. They organized a "40 and Over
Club" made up of men 40 years of age and over. They hold regular
meetings, have inspirational speakers and endeavor to build up their
own morale. Each member tries not only to help himself but also to help
the other members. Their motto is "There is no substitute for experience." This is the thought that they try to sell employers and they
have sold it many times. Much credit is due the East Bay for the
originality of the idea.
In selecting this one example of the ability of those who work in
our Employment Bureaus, we do not intend to detract from the other
offices. A report of this kind does not permit further examples of their
work. Each has its merits and is entitled to your praise and support.

1. East Bay Board of Relief............................................................$ 40.00
Case of member of Union Kilwinning Lodge #4
Charleston, South Carolina
2. Stockton Board of Relief............................................................ 138.00
Case of member of Port Neuf Lodge #18
Pocatello, Idaho
3. Bakersfield Board of Relief........................................................ 125.00
Case of member of Breckenridge Lodge #492
Breckenridge, Texas
TOTAL ................................ :.....................................................$. . .
The Board of Control has carefully examined the files submitted
with these reimbursement applications and has found them to be in
order. We have recommended them to the Finance Committee and have
asked for their favorable consideration.
CONCLUSION

APPROPRIATIONS

The Board of Control has recommended to the Finance Committee
for their consideration the following appropriations for Employment
Bureau service of the different Boards of Relief:
1949-1950
East Bay ··············-····-···-······-····-·······················$ 2,500.00
Fresno ..................................................................
266.00
Long Beach .......................................................... 1,838.00
Los Angeles ........................................................ 6,000.00
Sacramento ..........................................................
750.00
San Diego ............................................................ 1,869.00
San Francisco ...................................................... 1,500.00
TOTAL ..............................................................$14, 723.00
The Board of Control further recommends that 50% of these
amounts be paid at once and 50% at the end of the fiscal half year.
REIMBURSEMENTS

When a Board of Relief has been unable to secure repayment of
funds advanced through the customary sources, it has been the practice
of Grand Lodge to make them whole. The Board of Control agrees
with this custom believing that such action is in itself a method of
assuring the proper handling of relief cases, in that it removes any
possible tendency toward niggardliness on the part of those administering relief.
The following Boards of Relief have petitioned the Board of Control
for reimbursement:

139

I

No report of the Board of Control would be complete without an
expression of thanks to our Most Worshipful Grand Master for his
co-operation and indulgence, his interest in our problems and his
generosity in allowing us so much of his valuable time.
Our sincere thanks to the Grand Secretary, the assistant Grand
Secretary and their corps of assistants to whom we turn on all matters
and whose co-operation is always an inspiration.
The Board of Control has found a close ally in the Inspectors. Many
have assisted us in our work during the past year. Outstanding among
this group are the Inspectors of the 69th and 91 st Districts, who undertook the problem of organizing Boards of Relief within their Districts
and actively followed them through to completion. We are indebted to
them.
We are all under obligation to the men who operate our Boards of
Relief and Employment Bureaus. Their work has placed the system of
administering Masonic Relief and Employment in the jurisdiction of
California in a position that the Board of Control believes can not be
equalled in any other jurisdiction.
Respectfully submitted,
}ACK C. BUTLER
JoHN T. MARTIN
Guy A. TOLLE
HARRY F. WHITE
REGINALD M. MILLS

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board desires to preface its
seventeenth annual report, covering the period from August 1, 1948
to July 31, 1949 inclusive, by a statement of our Most Worshipful
Grand Master:
"The Masonic Homes of California, in my opinion, is one of
the most valuable assets of Freemasonry in this Grand Jurisdiction. To participate in this great charity is a duty and a privi~e~e.
Now is the time to remember those placed in our care by D1vme
Providence", signed Edward H. Siems, Grand Master.
PURPOSE
The Masonic Home at Decoto for the aged. The Masonic Home
at Covina for children. These have become Magic Words to the
thoughtful Mason. The warmth of the hearts of ou.r brethren go ~ut
in real sympathy and love for the children, with the bght of the sunrise
in their eyes, and our older guests, both men and women, whose suns
are rapidly going down to the realm "where the rainbow never fade~,
where the stars will be spread out before us like islands that slumber m
the ocean, and where the beautiful beams that now pass before us
like shadows will stay in our presence forever".
For assisting in the adequate financial provision of these Homes
your Endowment Board was created by action of Grand Lodge (Constitution and Ordinances. Article V) and consists of fifteen members.
The purpose of such a Board was to enlighten the Brethren regarding
the work and needs of the Hom~s. and to afford an opportunity to make
contributions for their support. In short, the purpo~e of the Board is,
"to study. devise. and carry out plans for the securing of adequate
endowment for the Masonic Homes of California."
OBJECT
.
As a Board we have held constantly before us that the aims and
object of our creation were educational in nature. We have attempted
to continually present such an object through the officers, by correspondence. by literature and by visua! education.
PLAN
A well-formulated plan has been followed throughout the year.
having in mind the above purpose. This plan provided for the informing
the Constituent Lodges. and through them the brethren thereof. the
status of our Homes. the need of a sound Endowment program and the
opportunity that every Mason had in participating in this our greatest

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

141

over-all Charity work. Such a plan was carefully plotted and has covered the entire jurisdiction.
PERFORMANCE
We feel that the execution of such a program has been carried
through. Fortunately. your Board members are widely distributed and
represent all sections of the State. We are appreciative of the older
members who pioneered the work and have welcomed to the Board some
new and active members that have assisted materially in effective
performance this year.
In addition to the letters and thousands of pamphlets which have
been carefully distributed we have had a far greater number of requests
for assisting in Endowment programs at regular lodge, district and
special meetings. This augurs well for the increased interest and the
dissemination of the program. Perhaps the greatest contribution to
these programs has been the wide use of our 35 mm. Kodachrome slides,
which have given a more realistic and lasting picture of the true nature
of our Homes' activities. We trust they will be continued in use
throughout the year.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS

It is hard to evaluate the true results. Seeds are constantly being
sown which will in time bear fruit. This is manifest year after year in
the resultant number of bequests. The immediate yardstick by which
results are measured is shown in the subsequent financial statement.
We are pleased that the contributions through individual lodges is the
greatest in our history-$191,489.68. More promising for the future
is a steady numerical climb in individual participants.
We are proud that the Endowment Fund has passed the three and
a half million dollar mark. At the same time we are cognizant of the
fact that the income even from this sum is very inadequate to care for
the needs of the Homes. Consequently. the best we can say for accomplishments is that a good foundation has been laid upon which to build
the super structure, namely an adequate. permanent Endowment Fund.
APPRECIATION
Your Board has appreciated the privilege of working in this great
endeavor, but it humbly realizes that what has been accomplished has
been due mainly to the efforts of others. It is with sincere appreciation
that we extend our grateful thanks to the Most Worshipful Grand
Master, who has on every possible occasion given us the utmost assistance, has carried the Homes' message continually throughout the year
and to the entire Jurisdiction. He has been wonderfully well supported
by the fine Inspectors, who have been even more alert in directing sub-

142

stantial effort for the Endowment program. To the Masters, officers,
committee chairmen and hundreds of others we realize we owe a debt
of gratefulness as through them the final and individual contact is made
and the response received.
The Board's work has been materially aided and lightened by the
fine cooperation of the offices of the Grand Secretary. The operation
and handling of the constant reports through lodges would have been
a mammoth job except for the efficient cooperation through these offices.
The lodge Secretaries deserve special mention for the manner in
which they have turned in their lodge contributions. This is of extreme
importance since we operate in conformity with the Grand Lodge fiscal
year and recognition is made and the books closed as of July 31st. We
sincerely regret that in a few instances some lodges failed to get their
report in by this date and it necessarily will have to show in the next
annual report. We are particularly embarrassed that it is impossible
to show the splendid contribution of $1,034.00, which has been made
by Union Lodge No. 58 in Sacramento. Since the amount was received
after the close of the books for the fiscal year, it will show in the next
year's printed report. This embarrassment is gradually being removed
and we trust by another year all lodges can be given due credit in
proper form.
We solicit your careful indulgence in scrutinizing the attached de~
tailed statement which reveals the real progress and points the way to
the future.
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board:

143

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1947
$186,398.55

1948
$187,588.26

1949
$191,319.68 -

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS

1947
43,708

1948
47,714

1949
52,998

TESTAMENTARY GIPTS

Bequests of cash have been received as follows, up to July 31 1949·
Estate of:
'
·

"rfJames
:;1,:e~e :iir~~ke (Eagle Roclt 422)......-······-·········-·····-······-···········........$ 1,000.00
L. Goode <M~8o2)"···-···-·---------·----··..···-----·------·------·-·---·---------... 2,848.79

~~!nc:e~cL&ulbii"ii·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
g:~g
Catherme Oliver
--·-·-·----------·---····· 5,000.00
30

Charles c. Pittam "(sch~iiei'ii.443)··-..--·--·--··---·..·····--··------·---·-------·--------······
J.B. Rothschild (Fidelity 120) ·····---··········~·-····-·····-··--·-··················-·..
Elizabeth J. Sanford
--···----·····..·-··-··--············-··-·······-..w··.....
John Tonningsen (Orie~i~ii.Mf-·-·-· · · ·· · ······-·······-·---·--···· ·-··-··--······ ·············
Harry L. Wilcox (King Solomon;·-260)-············-··..··-··-··-·····-·..········Rachael M. Winsby
s
-······-··-··-·--··-··---··-·-·······-···
Julius Wittich (BerkeieY:'363f-----·---..··-·······················································

9.10
5,000.00
1,500.00
5,000.00
3,008.91
500.00
7,500.00
··-··-·-·-···-·--··..·········--·-··-····-···..-·-······-100.00
Total.·-····--····-··:······································-·····-,.................................. ~769.45

MEMORIALS

1951
Term expires1949
1950
Edmund A. Lockett
Rollie W. Miller
Ernest G. Bashor
Clovis I. Robert
Reynold E. Blight
Walter H. Ireland
Arthur H. Triggs
Harry A. Nauman, Jr. James T. Fraser
Byron Coleman
Orno E . Tyler
lra D. Wheeler
Leonard R. A vllla
A. W. Carlson
Lester A. Price
OIBcters:
Vice..Chairman-Tames T. Fraser
Chairman-Dr. Ernest G. Bashor
Secretary-Lloyd E . Wilson
Treasurer-Francis V. Keesling

David Boucher
Alvin G. Briggs
Jess H. Cathey
A. D. Cranstoun
Lowell 0. Dixon
Sara Frazier
G. E. Harrison

Frank J. McEniry .
Dr. Harry Martin's Mother
Emery H. Reynolds
Harvey E. Sparrow
Melville C. Threlkeld
Herman Zwang

HONORABLE MENTION

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per mem~
her. (Such contributions were made by 90 Lodges) :
No.

Lodge

Members

~;:~~~:: ~:- -= :: ::: :: ::: ::: =~:::=~:::-:

3
26
35
41
56 v·
··----·······----------------·-···-····---·-·-··---····---------------···········
128 s~:~m;···-··-······-··--····----·--··· ..······-·-··-···················-··············
201 p
··--··--------------------···· ..·-·-------·-··-································
202

220

D~~~ha....:::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::=::

706
239
911
372
53
520
152
564
484

Total
$1,554.00
480.50
1,857.00
769.00
165.50
1,462.25
308.00
1,213.00
975.85

144
237
241
242
262
272
273
278
279
291
302
303
326
329
332
333

346
352
368
378
379
383
387
406
408
409
415
424
438
452
462
467
470
493
516
524
527
529
533
535
545
566
575
577
. 580
585
586
589
595
598
599
600
604
613
614
623
628
629
636
637

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Guadalupe ·-··········-··--····--············-····-·····-······-··-·······
Santa Ana ···········-············-···-·····-·-···-······-··-··-···········
Magnolia -·····-··-···················v·····-······················-···············
Lompoc ···········-··················-··············-··········-······-··-···········
Pasadena ·-···-····-··········-··-······························-······-·········
Anchor ···-··-··-·-··-·-··········-······-······-··-··--···-·-············
Southern California ............................................................
Hanford ···-·····························--····················-·····-·················
Santa Paula ···························-··········-·································
Santa Lucia ·······-··········-······-······-··-··················-···············
Porterville -·-··-··-··-·····································-·······-········-···
Needles ···-··-······-··-··························-······················-···········
Vallee de France ···-··············-··························-········-·······
San Pedro ···-··-··-············-························-··········--···········
Alta ·--··-··········-·-··-··-··············-······-··-····-··-···················
Palo Alto -·········-······················-··-··-·-··-················-····-···
Sunset ·-"-·-·········-··························- ··-·-········-··-··-·-·--···
Unity ···---··-··-··························-·························-···-··-·······
Mizpah ··-··-··-·······-·········-······-··········-········--··-······-·······
Fillmore ···-··-·-··-··································- ··-·························
Orosi ···········"'··········-··································-··············-··-··-···

~::~: :::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::=::::::::=:~~=

Sierra Madre ·--······-······-··················-··············-········-·····
Honolulu ·······-··-··-······-··-······················- ·-······:··- ·····-···
Silver Trowel ···································- ··-······- ········- ··--·······
Exeter ·······-······················-·········-····································-··
Acacia ·-···-··--········-····---··············-··········-··-··-··-··-·······
San Pasqual ···-· ·-··-······························-··············-···:.........
Paul Revere ···-······························-······················-······-···Culver City ·······························································-··-·······
Lincoln ···-··-··-···-·····-··········-··-······························-··-·······
Atascadero ···-···-·················-······················-·······················
Taft ···········-······-··-······························-~-················-···········
Catalina Island ·····································-········-···················
Covenant ···-··- ······················-······--····-·····················-··-···
Loyalty ..:........·-·-····-····················-······-··-··-···-·········-··-···
Azure ·--······-··-·····- ······-··················-··········-········-·····--··

Alexander Hamilton ·······················-··-··················-·-·····Jonathan ···-··--··································-·························-···
James A. Garfield ·····························-····················-··-··-···
Fort Crook ·······················-··········-························-··-··-·······
Sunnyside ···-······-··········-··············-··········-············-··-·······
Santa Maria ···················-················································-···
Manchester ............................................................................
Garden Grove ···-··························-·······································
Kauai ···-····-····-··························-··········-··········-··-···-··-···
Alexander G. Bell ·········································-·····················
Pearl Harbor ···············································-·························
Carmelita ................................................................................
Lynwood ·········································-·····································
Jubilee ···························-······-··-······················-······-··-·······
Three Pillars ·····················································- ···················
Larchmont ·································································-···········
Menorah ·······················································-····················-···

~~ie-;-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

John Marshall ···································-··-······-·····················
Palisades ···-··········-·····························-··············-··········-···
641 James A. Foshay ·····························································-···

145

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

132
566
385
170
536
508
515
208
318
148
457
348
122
513
79
655
406
590
435
225
133
340
603
133
346
381
194
58
449

558
309
343
100
298
147
332
424
231
222
186
219
143
454
106
356
186
123
266 .
551
301
341
315
364
372
696
250
247
262
354
225

297.50
1,169.50
1,068.00
546.75
1,076.00
1,342.77
1,310.50
485.50
680.00
304.50
999.00
699.50
250.09
1,227.50
188.50
1,325.50
822.25
1,202.00
1,104.50
459.00
280.00
695.00
1,217.00
302.00
737.00
1,135.00
486.50
126.00
952.77
1,123.00
658.50
1,021.50
373.75
824.50
316.00
736.50
872.00
671.00
450.00
373.50
1,158.08
382.50
1,003.00
450.50
757.00
392.88
494.95
671.80
1,313.00
795.00
694.66
656.00
735.00
746.50
3,100.00
612.50
558.00
535.50
824.00
471.50

642
645
646
662
672
674
677
678
680

La CUmbre ·--··-·-·······-······-··-······-······-··--······-······-···
A. F. E. Irwin.-··········-····-··········-··-···-··-············-···-··
Metropolitan ···-······························-·····································
Henry Knox ···································-··············-·····················
Laguna Beach ···························-·········································
Los Cerritos ···························-·············································
Liberal Arts ·······································-··-······-·····················
Altadena ·······················································-······-···············
Carmel ···············-···································································

691

Indian Wells Valley ···············································-···········

694
695
696
697

San Antonio ..........................................................................
Meudel ·-··-····································································-·······
Crossroads ..............................................................................
St. Elmo ···-·············································································

gg& ~~~ncai=i~-;·-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::
693~ Palm Springs ···-···································································

t:t. iYo~d~~::~~~~.~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
U.D. Bixby Knolls ···········-··············-······························-···········
U.D. Santa Ynez Valley ..............................................................

217
247
117
424
173
271
252
376
131
123
159
154
92
64
62
88
37
38
54
70
30

Respectfully submitted,
ERNEST G. BASHOR
EDMUND A . LoCKETI
REYNOLD E. BLIGHT
ROLLIE

w. MILLER

JAMES T. FRASER
IRA D. WHEELER
0RNO E. TYLER
CLOVIS J. RoBERT
LESTER A. PRICE
A.

w. CARLSON

ARTHUR H. TRIGGS
BYRON COLEMAN
LEONARD A. AVILLA
WALTER H. IRELAND
HARRY A. NAUMAN, JR.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

661.00
602.00
273.00
2,872.50
400.00
629.00
525.50
757.01
324.50
254.00
375.50
406.00
296.50
130.00
125.00
185.00
103.00
210.00
109.50
141.00
71.59

146

147

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC IDSTORY

three weeks we have written to approximately two hundred Lodges
and their Inspectors, urging their cooperation in this matter. We still
feel, even at this late day, that local Lodges could be of assistance by
sending to us material on themselves and their members worthy of
special mention. In doing so they will enable us to complete our task
with the assurance that we have not failed to honor any deserving
Lodge or brother in this Grand Jurisdiction.
We have completed the manuscripts of three volumes with a sum
total of 495,000 words. We feel that with the material on hand and
what we hope to receive in the very near future we will be able to
complete the final volume, which will make in all four volumes of at
least five hundred pages each.
Basing our estimate on the experience of the past twenty-two months
we believe it will take five more months to finish the manuscript, proofread the printed copy, properly index the same and fully correct all
errors, typographical and otherwise.
We have prepared and have attached hereto a proposed budget
which we feel should be sufficient to complete this work. The budget
for the further period of five months amounts to $3,645.40.
Therefore, your Committee offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report:
By October 1 of this year, we had consumed approximately one
year and ten months in an effort to complete the manuscript of a history
of Freemasonry in California in accordance with your directions. We
had sincerely hoped to submit the full manuscript at this Annual Com·
munication, but found the task much greater than anticipated. Our
work was unavoidably slowed by two major factors.
In the vast amount of historical material collected over a period of
twenty years, we have found countless errors, omissions and contra·
dictions which have necessitated additional research and the writing of
literally thousands of letters to Lodges and individuals in California
and elsewhere in quest of essential data.
This condition, fully covered in our report to the 1948 Communication of Grand Lodge, has shown but slight improvement with the
passing months. It is still necessary to double check everything for
accuracy.
A greater handicap, however, has been the failure of many Lodges
to respond to our requests for material.
One hundred and two of them are in Northern California-with
forty-two in the San Francisco Bay area alone. The response from
Southern California has not been much better, particularly from Lodges
organized since 1900. Many of them have acknowledged our letters
with the simple observation that they "have no history of interest."

In order not to slight any of these Lodges, we have been compelled
to search the Grand Lodge Proceedings for their vital statistics and
names of their first officers. We have even gone further. In an honest
endeavor to find something interesting on every one of them, we have
consulted items from county histories, Masonic periodicals, and local
press wherever the same are available. Included in this has been an
unrelenting effort to reconstruct the personal histories of Grand Masters
prior to the time their biographies were published in the Grand Lodge
Proceedings. This has necessitated consulting public records, libraries,
relatives, and business and professional associates all over the state.

RESOLVED:
1. That the present work of the Committee on Masonic History
be continued.
2. That the sum of $3,645.40 be appropriated and set aside for the
use of said Committee for the completion of the Manuscript of the
History of Masonry in California.
Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL
CHARLES R. INGRAM
WILSON E. NEWLON
THOMAS NORRIS
DAVID TULLOCH
JAMES M. BARKLEY
RoY L. HAGLUND
ALEX C. KRATER
HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Furthermore, twice during the past two years, we have sent a circular
letter to every Lodge in the state, describing in minute detail the material
des!red. We have also sent hundreds of letters to particular Lodges
in quest of specific data not mentioned in our circular letters but subsequently discovered to be essential to our purpose. Within the past

JoHNT. BOND
SAMUEL STEELMAN
0THMER JOHN WOHLGEMUTH
RICHARD E. GIESEN

148

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

HISTORY COMMITTEE
BUDGET
October, November, December, 1949: January, February, 1950
Clyde Arbuckle, salary ···············-·····-·-········.,....···-·-····-····--$ 350.00
Rent ................................................................................................
60.00
Stenographer ................................................................................ 150.00
Telephone, electric light, heat, typewriter ( 3) rental, water,
safety deposit box rental. transportation, paper, stationery, etc. .................................................................................. 100.00
Per month................................................$ 660.00
Five months expenses ·······-························································$3,300.00
Southern California Manuscript ··································-·············· 345.40
Total five months ..........................................................................$3,645.40

Adopted.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and to the Committee on
Finance.

149

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
GRAND LODGE RITUAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This report has to do with the appropriate words to be used in
speaking to the officers of this Grand Lodge and in referring to or
speaking about those officers in our opening, closing and installation
ceremonies.
The committee which is now reporting was appointed by our present
Grand Master pursuant to a motion adopted at the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge last year. That motion requested the Grand
Master to appoint a special committee to consider a portion of the report
of the Ritual Committee presented in 1948 containing recommendations
as to certain action taken at the 1947 Annual Communication with
reference to the ritual to be used in the opening, closing and installation
ceremonies. The following proceedings need to be recalled as a basis
for our report:
In the course of his report to the Grand Lodge at the 1947 communication, the Grand Lecturer stated (Proceedings 1947, pages 110 to 111 )
that his attention had been called to the language of section three of the
constitution of the Grand Lodge wherein it is provided that the address
of the several officers shall be: Most Worshipful, Right Worshipful and
so forth. He further stated, correctly, that the definition of address was:
"To direct words to anyone. To use a set form in accosting or greeting,"
but that in our Grand Lodge ritualistic work we used the addl'ess when
speaking of an officer and omitted it when speaking to him. This, he
said, was the reverse of the correct usage. He then proposed that the
constitution be amended to change the address to the title. The matter
was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence which reported later in
the session of 1947 ( page 260) that it disapproved the proposed amendments and recommended that they be not adopted. The report of the
committee was adopted.
Thereafter, at the same comµmnication in 1947, the then Junior
Grand Warden presented a resolution (Proceedings, page 261) that
"the opening, closing and installation ceremonies of the Grand Lodge
be amended to conform to section three of the constitution by deleting
the address of Grand Lodge officers whenever the speaker is not addressing the officer and, whenever the address. and title are combined
in speaking to an officer, by deleting the title, leaving the address only."
This resolution was referred by Grand Master Moore to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. That committee reported that
in its opinion the opening, closing and installation ceremonies should
conform to our fundamental law and recommended the adoption of the

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

resolution. The committee report was adopted. The Grand Master
then put the resolution and it was adopted. When Grand Lodge was
called off that afternoon and again when it was called on the following
morning, the last day of the 1947 communication, the Grand Master
and other Grand Lodge officers used ritualistic work in conformity with
the requirements of the resolution.
At the 1948 communication the Ritual Committee made a report
to the Grand Lodge in which it recommended that the resolution adopted
at the 1947 communication be rescinded. On motion this report was
referred to a special committee for report at this, the 1949 communication.
In the report of the Ritual Committee in 1948 it is stated that "Before
the language of the ritual can be changed it is necessary for the Committee on Ritual to present such new language to the Grand Lodge for
adoption.'' We find no such requirement in the constitution. Nowhere
in our laws do we find that the Committee on Ritual is charged with
that duty.
The law relative to the duty of the Ritual Committee is contained
in section 52 of the Ordinances which provides:
"The Grand Lecturer and the four Assistant Grand Lecturers shall constitute the Ritual Committee, and the
committee as so composed from time to time shall be the
custodian of the esoteric work.''
In other words, the duty imposed upon that committee is custodial
in nature. It is a depository for ritualistic work. lts powers and duties
with reference to changes in the ritual would seem to be of a recommendatory nature only. Section 248 of the Ordinances provides that
the Grand Lodge alone has power to authorize changes in the ritual.
This phase of the matter is alluded to for the reason that at the
outset this committee was confronted with the question of the effect
of the resolution adopted by the Grand Lodge in 1947. Our conclusion
is that the language of the resolution was self-executing and that when
Grand Lodge adopted it the opening, closing and installation ceremonies
were modified in the particulars specified and no duty was cast upon
any committee or member of the Grand Lodge except to conform to
the action of the Grand Lodge. Grand Master Moore and the other
Grand Lodge officers were therefore correct in 19i7 in using the modified
form in calling off that same afternoon and in opening the following
morning.
As pointed out by the report of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes in 1947, the opening and closing and installation
ceremonies of Grand Lodge should conform to our fundamental law.
The Constitution of the Grand Lodge of California is that fundamental law. Section 3 of Article II of the constitution provides:

"The Grand Lodge shall be composed of a Grand Master
(whose address shall be Most Worshipful), a Deputy
Grand Master, a Senior Grand Warden, and a Junior
Grand Warden (whose addresses shall severally be Right
Worshipful), a Grand Treasurer, a Grand Secretary and
a Grand Lec~urer (whose addresses shall severally be
Very Worshipful), a Grand Chaplain whose address
shall be Very Reverend ) , the Assistant Grand Lecturers,
a Grand Orator, an Assistant Grand Treasurer an
Assistant Grand Secretary, a Grand Marshal, a G~and
Standard Bearer, a Grand Sword Bearer, a Grand Bible
Bearer, a Senior Grand Deacon, a Junior Grand Deacon,
Two Grand Stewards, a Grand Pursuivant, a Grand
Organist, and a Grand Tiler (whose addresses shall severally be Worshipful): together with all the Past Grand
Officers and Past Masters of this jurisdiction, and the
Mast~rs and Wardens of the several chartered and duly
constituted Lodges, or the representatives thereof duly
elected."

•

151

. C~nformity ~th the language of the section just quoted would seem
to indicate th.at in ~?e opening ceremonies of Grand Lodge the response
to the question: Who compose the Grand Lodge of California?"
should be "The Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master the Senior
Grand Warden, etc." The effect of the resolution of 1947 ~as to omit
the address of "Most Worshipful." "Right Worshipful." and "Very
":'orshipful" i_n that response ~nd use. the address only when the particular officer is spoken to. This practice has been uniform in much of
our Grand Lodge proceedings. The purpose and effect of the resolution of 1947 was to make it entirely so. It should be emphasized at this
P_Oint. t~at the resolution of 1947 did not result in any change in the
r1tua~1sbc work of the subordinate lodges and is expressly limited to
operung, closing and installation ceremonies of the Grand Lodge.
There is no uniformity among the Grand Lodges in the United
States in this general field. The titles of officers differ from state to state.
some have officers unknown to us and we have officers possessed by
no other Grand Lodge, seating arrangements vary, the word is not
conveyed in some jurisdictions, the term Most Worshipful is not used
at all in Pennsylvania, in some jurisdictions Right Worshipful is used
in connection with a certain officer and only Worshipful in connection
with the same officer in another jurisdiction. Language comparable to
that in section three of our constitution is not to be found in the constitutions of 46 out of the 48 other Grand Lodges in the United States:
hence there is no guide to be found in the other grand jurisdictions
as to what the usage should be in California.

152

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Your committee therefore reports that, in its opinion, when in 194 7
Grand Lodge adopted the resolution sought to be rescinded, it properly
eliminated from the opening. closing and installation ceremonies of
Grand Lodge the wording which was at variance with our fundamental
law and that no further action was necessary to effect those corrections.
It is obviously inappropriate to set forth those corrections in this
report. They may readily be noted in the "Code" furnished Grand
Officers for their convenience in preparing for the Grand Lodge ceremonies involved.
It is therefore recommended that the 1948 report of the Ritual Committee be filed and that the resolution of 194 7 be not rescinded.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TRIAL
PROCEDURES

Respectfully submitted,
JoHN W. SHENK

LESLIE E. Wooo
WILLIAM B. McKEssoN

Adopted.

153

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the last annual communication of the Grand Lodge of California
the Grand Master made the following recommendation:
( g) I recommend the appointment of a special committee to study
Masonic trial procedures of the several Grand Jurisdictions and to
recommend revisions in our trial ordinances.
I believe that the quality of our trials and of our Masonic justice
can be improved and that the Brothers of the Lodges will welcome a
revision, which removes from them the burdens and responsibilities of
sitting in judgment upon one of their own members.
In many jurisdictions the trials are conducted by special panels of
experienced Masons appointed by the Grand Master for the particular
trial. and the case for the prosecution is presented by a representative
of the Grand Lodge.
Respecting this recommendation the following action was taken by
Grand Lodge:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred that portion of the Grand Master's Message designated as
Recommendation ( g) by which the Grand Master recommends that a
special committee to study Masonic trial procedure of the several Grand
Jurisdictions and to recommend revisions in our trial ordinances has
given the same consideration.
Your Committee is not sufficiently advised at present to determine
whether there be a need for revision of our trial procedure but believe
that if this portion of our code can be improved it should be done, and
therefore approve the Grand Master's recommendation for the appointment of the proposed committee of investigation.
The undersigned members of the Special Committee on Trial Procedures beg leave to report as follows:
The California Met hod: Article 4 fo the Ordinances of the Grand
Lodge of California prescribes the method of trial of members of the
Order. A Mason may be tried for any violation of Masonic or moral
law, and reprimanded, suspended or expelled.
The first incident in a Masonic trial in California is the preferring
of charges. This may be done by any member in good standing. If
facts are brought to the attention of the Junior Warden warranting a
Masonic trial, it is his duty to prefer the charges unless brought by
some other Mason.
The charges are presented to the Master of the lodge. A special
meeting of the members of the lodge is then called. At that meeting
a trial commission is elected, consisting of not less than seven nor more
than nine members of the lodge.
The Master then names a time and place for the first meeting of the

154

155

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND •LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

trial commission, notifies the accuser thereof, and directs that summons
and copy of the charges be served upon the accused. The summons
advises the accused of the time and place of the meeting, and requires
him to appear and answer the charges.
At its first meeting the trial commission organizes. The accused
presents his answer to the charges and specifications.
If the accused pleads not guilty, testimony for the accuser and the
accused is heard before the trial commission, the trial continuing with
necessary adjournments until completed. The secretary with the aid
of a stenographic reporter, keeps a record of the proceedings. If the
accused does not appear or if he pleads guilty, the trial commission
nevertheless takes, and makes a record of the testimony substantiating
the charge.
After all the testimony is received, the commissioners deliberate
and determine upon their verdict as to the truth of the specifications,
and, if any of the specifications are found true, fix the sentence.
A complete record of the proceedings is then made up, certified by
the Master and Secretary, and forwarded to the Grand Secretary. This
is the trial record.
In California trial records are referred to the Committee on Griev~
ances. This Committee examines each of them, and reports thereon to
Grand Lodge at its annual communication. Grand Lodge may affirm.
modify, or reverse the judgment of the trial commission, or make any
other proper order relative thereto.
The method in other jurisdictions: We are indebted to our · Grand
Secretary, Lloyd E. Wilson, and to the Masonic Service Association
of Washington, D. C., for a comprehensive report on trial methods of
Grand Lodges of the United States, 'brought up to date June 9, 1949.
There is one characteristic common to every grand jurisdiction.
Masonic offenses are offenses against the dignity of Masonry, and the
Grand Lodge in the last analysis has complete jurisdiction over them.
This jurisdiction is exercised in California by Grand Lodge delegating
trials to commissions elected by subordinate lodges, reserving the right
in any case to affirm, modify, or reverse the findings and decisions of
trial commissions. And when Grand Lodge so acts its decision is final.
Trial by the Lodge: A number of grand jurisdictions stiU retain what
perhaps was the first method of trial. That is trial by the lodge. Testi~
mony is taken before the lodge itself, with its members present. After
the testimony is concluded arguments are had by the accuser and the
accused, and then any member present may express his opinion. Fina1ly
the lodge by vote of its members determines the guilt or innocence
of the accused; and again, by vote of its members, fixes the penalty.
Trial by lodge is, however, in every state subject to the paramount
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge. Genera1ly this jurisdiction is exercised
by reference to a grand lodge committee similar to our own Committee

on Grievances. This committee reviews the record of the trial, and
makes its recommendation to Grand Lodge. The fo1lowing states still
use the trial by lodge method: Alabama, Delaware, Georgia, Indiana,
Ohio, New Mexico, and Vermont.
Trial in open lodge or by commission, or committee: Then we find a
combination of trial by the lodge or by commission, generally at the
option of the lodge. If the trial is by commission, the commission finds
the fact of guilt and recommends the penalty, as in California, with
Grand Lodge always having the final right of determination as to fact
and penalty. States using this method are: Arkansas, Colorado, Con~
necticut, Il1inois, Louisiana, Montana, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Ten~
nessee, Wisconsin (commission): Iowa, South Carolina, Wasbington,
West Virginia and Wyoming (committee).
The trial commission method: Next we come to what may be termed
the trial commission method. A commission generally composed of
masters and past masters hears the evidence, determines the fact, and
fixes the penalty. This is the system in California as already described.
Other states using this method are: Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, and
Utah (commission elected by lodge).
In the following states the trial commission is appointed by the
master of the lodge: Michigan, Pennsylvania, and South Dakota.
In New Jersey and Virginia the commission is appointed by a
district grand master: in North Carolina by an officer of Grand Lodge
caHed a judge advocate, and in Texas by a lodge committee, and in
Kansas by a lodge committee appointed by the Grand Master.
Trial by commission appointed by the Grand Master: The fo11owing
states try their members by a commission appointed by the Grand
Master: Idaho, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska,
New Hampshire, New York, and North Dakota.
There are differences in details of appointment, qualifications of
commissioners, etc., but generally the pattern may be illustrated by
what may be termed the New York procedure:
Any Mason may make a complaint. The Grand Master passes
upon the sufficiency thereof. If found sufficient, he appoints a trial
commission of not less than three nor more than five masters or past
masters, members of at least three different lodges and not members
of the lodge whose member is to be tried. The commissioner first desig~
nated acts as chairman, and in practice is customarily a judge or out~
standing member of the legal profession.
Then the complaint is forwarded to a Grand Lodge officer called
a proctor. His duties correspond roughly with the duties of a district
attorney in a criminal case. The proctor prepares formal charges, has
them served upon the accused, and prosecutes the case to judgment.
The trial commission finds guilt or innocence and determines the penalty.

157

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Appeals go to an appeal commission, which functions much the
same as our Committee on Grievances.
Conclusions: California never had the lodge trial method. And for
many reasons we should never adopt it. It should readily be apparent
that such a procedure would degenerate into a contest of who can make
the most noise and rally the most votes.
The question with us is whether we should adopt a method similar
to New York's, or retain our own present procedure.
On this question your committee begs leave to present the following
observations: The New York method takes completely away from the
local lodge the right to try its members. It is our opinion that it would
be a mistake to deprive the subordinate lodges of the California juris~
diction of this right. The brother accused tried and convicted in his
own lodge feels better having been tried by a commission selected by
his own lodge from its own membership. And many times there are
questions of fact which turn on a hair, and which can be determined
we think more justly by a man's own brethren in his own lodge. .If
mistakes are made, they can be rectified by Grand Lodge.
True some trials become excessively burdensome in the expenditure
of time and work and money by the local lodges. That burden must
be borne somewhere and could not be more justly placed than on the
lodge whose member causes it, and where the burden now rests. And,
in any event, mistakes and miscarriages of Masonic justice can always
be corrected by Grand Lodge.
Should we have in California a proctor, as they.have in New York?
Masonic trials are technical because they deal with sacred Masonic
rights. Our Masonic brethren may not be deprived of these rights
without strict compliance with age~old rules scientifically worked out
by the legal profession. While ascertainment of the truth in a trial
tribunal is a science it should always approximate a jury trial under
some professional guidance such as is later outlined. Laymen not
familiar with legal rules and legal procedure should not attempt to
apply them in a Masonic trial.
Equally important is the paramount right of Masonry to rid itself
of individuals who bring discredit or disgrace upon it and who impair
its dignity and good name.
When men untrained in the law attempt to carry through a Masonic
trial trouble ensues. Time and again trials have to be done over, to
preserve the rights either of the accused or of Grand Lodge, which have
been overlooked or overridden.
·
It is quite possible that an officer like a district attorney, charged
with the duty of preparing charges and prosecuting them to judgment
would do a better job in Masonic trials in California.
This involves several perplexing problems. Would he be an officer
with state~wide duties? In that case Grand Lodge would have to name
a permanent officer.

Such an officer would quite likely have to give full time to the work.
We are of the opinion that no amount of salary which Grand Lodge
would feel proper to pay would command the legal services now readily
available in most of the lodges in our state. We are sure that there are
available now Masons in every inspectorial district in California, lawyers of ability, who would gladly perform these services without charge
if requested as a Masonic service. Ordinarily such services would be
required only occasionally. And we think that many of the difficulties
experienced in California in the conduct of trials by trial commissions,
have been because the services of members of the bar, at the same time
members of our craft, were not requested.
Therefore, we recommend that Masters who preside and brethren
who prosecute or defend at Masonic trials be urged to contact and
utilize this source of help. No changes in our present ordinances are
necessary for this purpose.
Finally, we feel that we should try the last suggestion for a time
at least before we change our present system of trial procedure.

156

Respectfully submitted,
Loms

c. DRAPEA u

WARREN E. LIBBY
LoWELL L. SPARKS
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
ALFRED

c. SMITH

By action of Grand Lodge, the above report was received and
approved, and the Special Committee was discharged.

158

159

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DE MOLAY

To give you an idea how valuable the teachings of De Malay are
to the coming generation, just listen to a few comments from members
as presented in the Oriental Consistory News published by the Scottish
Rite Bodies of Y anktown, South Dakota.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The work of your Committee on De Malay activities is progressing
as well as can be expected but there is still much to be done before
our goal can be reached, that of causing Masons generally to be De
Malay conscious. This is our third report to the Grand Lodge and each
time we have endeavored to make it in such form as to stimulate those
present to take an active interest in our work by having De Malay
nights in your Lodges. Good Officers of Lodges are always on the
lookout for programs to present which will be of interest to the membership.
If it were possible for committee members to visit each Lodge in
the jurisdiction three or four times a year to keep the members thinking
about what De Malay is doing for the boy or young man who sooner
or later and it might be sooner than you think, is destined to replace
us in the affairs of life, we are sure that much better results could be
realized. As that is not possible we mt!st depend upon you representatives attending this session to carry our message back to your Lodges
and not let them forget it. We are sure that you will be both surprised
and pleased at the reaction of your members to both the De Malay
programs and to the keeping of its objectives before them.
The members of your Committee have enjoyed the carrying of the
message of De Malay to many Lodges and we are happy to report that
the results of past efforts are becoming more and more apparent, as
indicated by the change in the attitude of the Lodges which we have
visited, now they know what we are talking about, which was not the
case two or three years ago. We have also had the pleasure of appearing before the Bay District Master and Wardens _Associations.
Through the efforts of Brother K. V. Smith, the San Diego member
of the Committee; Knox Manning, the well-known radio commentator,
devoted a portion of his radio time on April twelfth, CBS coast-wide
broadcast, to a discussion of the origin, aims and accomplishments of
De Malay. This publicity is of course very valuable to De Molay and
while it is not a part of this Committee's duties to aid in adding to the
membership in De Malay Chapters we do feel that anything which aids
in its growth is worth while to the extent that it adds to the number of
fine citizens of tomorrow. Make no mistake about it, De Malay is a
power in this land of ours in making for good citizenship.
Also at the suggestion of Brother Smith, we are working on plans
for a get together of all the Lodges and Chapters in the San Diego
area for a dinner and entertainment. Chester Lauck and Norris Goff.
Lum and Abner to you and both former members of De Malay Chapters.
have agreed to take part in the program.

1. "No one thing has ever impressed me more than our first precept.
It has made me aware of the everlasting devotion due my parents.
If I should never obtain another thing from De Malay, I would
feel amply repaid for the time I have spent."
2. "I never had the ability to stand on my feet and express my
thoughts in a clear way without becoming confused and excited
until I joined De Malay."

3. "Young men who have taken the trouble to pledge themselves,
honestly to strive for De Malay ideals are just the kind of decent
companions a young man needs. In such comradeship, and
guided by men he respects, what boy can help but profit from
becoming a member of the order."
4. "The ritualistic work, the De Malay standards and ideals are
a beacon light to guide me through the plastic years before
manhood.''
5. "De Malay has strengthened my sense of civic duty. Since becoming a member of the Order I have made an clfort to be of
greater value to the community in which I live, a more vital
factor in the happiness and well being of my home and a greater
moving force in my church."

,

Here are five young men each getting a different lesson from the
teachings he received while taking the degrees, one--devotion to his
parents, one-self confidence. one--fine companionship, one--ideals for
future guidance and the last, increased sense of civic and church duty.
We have always discouraged the idea that the Masonic fraternity
considers De Malay as a recruiting ground for Masonry, however it is
a fact that young men who have attained their majority, after having
been members of De Malay Chapters, are naturally interested in an
order which provided Chapters Dads and Advisors whom they highly
respect. These young men, by virtue of the teachings and experience
with the ritual of De Malay, make outstanding members wherever they
have joined a Masonic Lodge and we think that you will agree that we
need young men of character more today than ever before in our history.
You will find no subversive elements coming from a Chapter of De
Malay. In many Lodges visited we found officers who had been active
in the work of De Malay.
Once more may we be permitted to suggest that you invite a Chapter
to exemplify a De Malay degree at one of your stated meetings. From
past experience we believe that you will find that more of your members

160

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
INFORMATION

will remain after dinner, any members of the Committee will be glad to
assist in securing a Chapter to visit your Lodge. In this connection,
your Committee will welcome any suggestions which may occur to ~ou
and which will be of help to us in carrying out the purposes for which
it was created.
We recommend the continuance of the Committee and that the sum
of $750.00 be appropriated to cover its necessary expense for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

CHARLES E. LISTENWALTER
THURMAN D. MOYERS
KAYV. SMITH
HAROLD F. BUTTERFIELD
HENRY HONAKER
WALTER FLIERL
RAYMOND

s. KIMBELL

WILLIAM D. WICKWIRE
FRANCIS

w. PETERS

RUSSELL A. MARDERS

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
The report was presented by Newcomb Condee because the Chairman, James K. Fisk, was absent due to serious illness.
·
The report was adopted and referred to the Committee on. Finance.
The complete report will be found in the General Appendix.

161

.

Your Committee on Masonic Information reports as follows:
The work of your Committee has unfortunately been retarded during
the past year an,d the continuity of its program somewhat interrupted,
with considerable loss of momentum. Obviously, a work of this kind
carried on among 600 lodges demands uniform and consistent effort,
so that it becomes routine and a matter of habit with lodge officers. A
break in its continuity necessarily results in inattention, loss of interest,
and, finally, a complete break down.
In 1947, your Committee recommended two small booklets entitled
"Address to the Candidate" and "Book of the Entered Apprentice."
These were approved by Grand Lodge, printed and distributed to the
lodges. These two booklets called forth numerous, unsolicited commendations from officers of lodges, leading your Committee to believe
that it was on the right course. Two reprints were soon necessary and,
at the present time, it is understood some lodges have exhausted their
supplies, which it is hoped can soon be replenished.
In 1948, your Committee presented manuscripts for two additional
booklets, the "Book of the Fellow Craft" and the "Book of the Master
Mason," the latter naturally being much more pretentious than the
others, since it included a general explanation designed to aid the newly
raised Master Mason in gaining a perspective of Freemasonry and
fixing his place in the Fraternity. It embraced a broad survey of Freemasonry, its teachings and purposes: a succinct statement of the privileges and duties of the Master Mason; some observations on the important matter of serving on Committees, particularly, Committees of
Investigation and means of guarding the portals of the lodge; the furtherance of peace and harmony; explanations of the positions and prerogatives of the Master, Inspector and Grand Master: an outline of the
organization and functions of the Grand Lodge; a brief treatise on the
laws and customs of Freemasonry; a word a.b out the Masonic Homes
and other charities, and, finally, an encouragement of the new Master
Mason to feel at home and to become an active participant in the affairs
of the lodge.
In short, this booklet is designed to give the newly raised Master
Mason, in concise form, not only for original instruction, but for future
reference, information that he would not acquire in the ordinary way
under several years.
Your Committee had anticipated having these two booklets, completing the series of four, in the hands of the lodges long ere this, but
due to the importance of the matter and the necessity for rendering
assurance of accuracy doubly certain, the text has been reveiwed by
the Grand Master and other Grand Officers and your Committee be-

162

,

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

lieves that it is now as nearly correct as any such book can be. at least
in its first edition.
While such parts of the program as have been adop.ted ~ust ~e kept
moving evenly in a routine pattern. no one. need .be 1mpati~nt if new
and sweeping measures are not suggested in rapid succ~ss1on .. Your
Committee has previously pointed out that the problems w~th wh~ch w_e
have to do have been accumulating for many years. not in California
alone, but throughout the other jurisdictions, and their solution r~quires
patience and persistence. It is also believed that the real ~est is how
the plan appeals to and is received by the lodges and, particularly, by
candidates. If they find it a valuable aid, the program will s~cc~ed,
otherwise not. The reception thus far given the present program JUstifies
its continuance and extension.
Last year an appropriation was made for printing the two booklets
for the Fellow Craft and Master Mason, but that appropriation lapsed
with the expiration of the fiscal year, and, accordingly, a n~w appro~!a­
tion will be necessary. An appropriation will also be required for printing this year's supply of the first two booklets. Your Committee is happy
to announce that by reason of the smaller number of degrees anticipated
and some decline in prices, it is estimated that a year's supply ~f our
four booklets can be secured for $3.500, whereas, last year, we estimated
an expense of $5.000 for the last two booklets alone. When this printing is finished. appropriate quantities of the. full series will ~e sent to the
lodges. They should be given to the Cand1dat~s as a routi?e procedure
of the 1odges and, when supplies are approaching exhaustion, the Secretaries should request replenishments from the Grand Secretary.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends:
1. That the Grand Secretary be authorized to print and distribute
to the lodges the Book of the Fellow Craft and the Book of the Master
Mason, the approved manuscripts of which are now in his hands, and
also to reprint and distribute the Address to the Candidate and the
Book of the Entered Apprentice.
2. That there be appropriated for said purpose the sum of $3.500,
and for the general expenses of the Committee $500.
3. That your Committee be continued for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,
DELBERT BERRY
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN
ALVIN
WENDT
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE
HENRY
COIL

w.

w.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
At 12:05 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 P.M.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

163

AFTERNOON SESSION

Grand Lodge was called on at I : 30 P .M., the Grand Master presiding.
The Most Worshipful Henry C. Heal, Grand Master of Masons
in the Jurisdiction of Washington, was received with Grand Honors
and greeted by the Grand Master.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC CLUB HOUSE,
BERKELEY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In view of the resignation of Past Grand Master C~arles Albert
Adams as President of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of
the University, Berkeley, I submit the following report summarizing the
work and activities of your board and the prospective expenses for the
coming fiscal year.
. For the benefit in general of all of you, but more particularly for the
information of the new Masters and. Wardens. who here represent for
the first time their respective lodges, may we at the outset remind you
just where the Berkeley Clubhouse is located. It is at the corner of
Bancroft Way and Bowditch Street in Berkeley, directly across the
street from the Women's Gymnasium on the Berkeley Campus. The
entrance is on Bancroft Way, just one block east of the busy intersection of Telegraph Avenue and Bancroft Way. We extend a cordial
invitation to all the brothers and their ladies to take this opportunity
while here at this annual communication, to visit the clubhouse and
see just how it functions and where your dollars have been expended.
It has been arranged for those of you who are going to the home at
Decoto in buses to return via the Berkeley Clubhouse. A map for your
direction and pictures of the building and improvements are on display
in the history section.
Located as we are, in close proximity to the fine newer structures
of the University of California in Berkeley, your directors have always
been of the opinion that you would want any home or clubhouse bearing
the name "Masonic" to be in keeping with the other structures in this
vicinty and to be a credit to our fraternity. Last year the Grand Lodge
very generously, and with the approval and upon the recommendation
of the Finance Committee, made available to our board for remodeling
the sum of $35,000.00, which is the largest sum Grand Lodge has ever
directly given or made available to the Berkeley Clubhouse. In other
words, this is the first major alteration program since the dedication
of the building by Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites in 1924. You
appropriated directly from the General Fund $20,000.00 for this purpose
and directed the trustees to use at least $15,000.00 of our own reserve
funds to help pay the cost of such repairs and replacements, said com-

164

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

mittee recommending further that in addition to the amount of $3,884.43
regularly included in our budget for depreciation and amortization,
the $15,000.00 would be withdrawn as above, but restored to the reserve
funds by Grand Lodge in five equal annual payments of $3,000.00
each, commencing with the next fiscal year. Your trustees are very
grateful to you for this investment, which we consider to be an investment in the University students at Berkeley, who come from Masonic
families, rather than a mere investment in a beautiful building. Later,
this report will indicate more particularly the character of the improvements made.
Here, we pause to pay tribute to three outstanding leaders of the
University Clubhouse movement whom we have lost as members and
officers of our Board this past year, namely, Brother Adams, by
resignation, and Brothers Farmer and Herms by death. We have
attached to this report as Exhibit 1 a copy of the resignation as member
and President of the Board, of Past Grand Master Charles Albert
Adams, effective October 1, 1949, which we have accepted with sincerest regret and with the same heart-wrench which he expresses
therein. It was my privilege to have been one of the original group of
students who organized in the year 1919 the first Masonic Club of the
University at Berkeley and I speak with first hand knowledge when
I say that he was one of the very first representatives of Grand Lodge
to envision a clubhouse to accommodate the many Masons returning
to the University following World War I. It was he who, during his
year as Grand Master, procUl'ed the initial appropriation from Grand
Lodge in the sum of $2,000.00 for the building. He was a member of,
and in constant attendance upon, all the preliminary meetings with the
many Past Grand Masters in the committees which prepared the plans
for the building and arranged for the raising by subscriptions of over
$150,000 from the Masons of this state. He was one of the original
incorporators of the Board and has been a member of it since its inception and is, as he states, the sole survivor of the original Board. It is
impossible in this report to adequately convey to him and to you the
deep debt of gratitude which we and the students of the University,
who have had the benefit of his initiative, his wisdom and his counsel.
all owe to Brother Adams. We treasure his friendship.
During the early part of this year we were shocked when we learned
of the sudden passing in Chicago of Judge Milton T. Farmer, who had
been our President for the past several years. He had just concluded
presenting a matter before the United States Supreme Court and died
of a heart attack. A man of strong character, firm but just, we will miss
him in the guidance of our affairs and in his representation of us here
in Grand Lodge.
Our Vice-President, Professor William B. Herms, thereupon assumed the post of President only to be likewise stricken on May 9,
1949 and within a few months of the death of the Judge. "Billy," as

he was affectionately known to our members, the students and the
faculty, like Brother Adams, was closely associated with the whole
clubhouse movement and the student organ~zation which antedated it.
He was also the principal organizer and Master Under Dispensation,
and first Master of Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541. He was
an eminent scientist and gave the clubhouse and its Board and its
student members a close contact with the faculty of the University
where he was Professor of Entomology and head of the Department
of Entomology and Parasitology.
The services of these three men have been invaluable and their
wisdom and advice will be missed at all our forthcoming meetings.
Reverting to our building program, some of us recall that it was
the Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master in 1948,
wh~. on the occa~ion of. his official visit to the students in Berkeley,
advised us, after inspecting the whole building, that we should make
the str~cture conform to the usual Masonic standards by remodeling
~he e~tire basement of our building, thoroughly modernizing it and
installing an up-to-date kitchen, banquet room and social hall. This
in effect'. he incorporated in his annual message of last year (Page 2s:
Proceedings of 99th Annual Communication) with favorable recommendatio?. ~e are haJ:'Py to report to you now that this program has
been car.ried mto ex~cution, t~e work being complete save for the laying
of certain asphalt tde and linoleum flooring, which the general contractor was unable to complete due to strike conditions which prevailed
at the end of the summer vacation during which months we had elected
to do the work. The building committee, composed of four of our trustees, sitting with our architect, Brother A. Lewis Koue, in numerous
and ~xtended ~essions, and a vigilant and constructive board, finally
contrived to bring the program into line with the monies available and
to accomplish all of the principal objectives contained in our original
esti~ate to you and to also complete the removal and capping of the
cornice on the west wall of the building which was not in that estimate.
. In the lower Boor area Architect Koue went along with the suggestion of the Students' Committee in preserving to the men students their
pool room and lounge on the east side, and installed adjacent thereto
a new and modern men's lavatory, although this increased the cost
somewhat over his original plan and estimate. Be it said to the credit
of the original Board, they had the foresight to provide in the concrete
floor some cast iron pipes and some plumbing outlets, and also installed
vents, apparently antk:ipating this expansion program. At the south
end of this Boor area, taking advantage of these plumbing facilities, the
architect, in conjunction with the successful and lowest bidder for the
kitchen equipment, arranged a modern kitchen, adaptable either for
~se of large groups such as those attending the Grand Master's reception, annual student initiations or visits by Masters' and Wardens'
Associations, or for more constant service to smaller groups of student

~

.

165

167

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

166

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

members for luncheon and snack bar purposes.
Your money has further made available an additional .and v.ery
much needed study room on the mezzanine floor and has made it possible
to increase the women's rest room facilities one hundred per cent.
The lighting of the building has been greatly i~pro:ed and c~rt~in
electrical wiring has been brought into conformity with the building
codes. In the hostess' quarters you have made it possible to change
what we had never been able to call a kitchen, or even a kitchenette.
into a compact, modem apartment-kitchen, much to the gratification of
our hostess, Mrs. Morton.
We would like to have followed the suggestion of our former
member and present Most Worshipful Grand .Master, Edw~rd H.
Siems, to greatly expand and thoroughly modernize the women s lava·
tory on the main floor. To do so would have required ~s to ~ncroach
upon the main lounge area, and, upon taking alternative bid~ from
several contractors, it was ascertained that we would have required an
additional $2,000.00 to $2,500.00. While we regret that we could not
do this, it serves to emphasize how greatly the present number of people
using the building exceeds the anticipation of your original board.
Some idea of the nature, extent and variety of uses to which the
building is now put is indicated by the report of Brother Donald A.
Marshall, a member of Naval Lodge No. 87, who was President of the
Student Club and Council in the spring of this year. We append hereto
as Exhibit 2 his report, which shows a membership of 562 students
in the fall of 1948 and 468 in the spring semester of 1949. Open house
meetings served to acquaint your sons, daughters, othe~ relatives and
their friends with the facilities available and these meetings appear to
have produced the greatest attendance, but it is also apparent that there
is a growing demand that the clubhouse provide, through their student
organizations, hot meals or luncheon headquarters besides the numerous
amusements and forms of entertainment customary in the past. We
did not install a snack bar, as we understand that term to be properly
applied, because the students ·have as yet t~ work o~t a satis.factory
method of compliance with sanitary regulations relating to milk and
milk products, but, following the example of the original .~~ard, we
made provision in the kitchen for the installation of such facilities when
the administrative and other details have been worked out.
Student members of the club attending at the opening of the fall
semester have expressed their unqualified approval and great appreciation of the improvements which you have made possible.
It may be of interest to the members of Grand Lodge to know that
when the late Judge William H. Waste and Professor Herms selected
the site for the clubhouse, there were many lots surrounding it which
were unoccupied. As the University has expanded and is rapidly taking
up the business area on Telegraph Avenue in the block immediately

..

south of Sather Gate it has forced business up Bancroft Way from
Telegraph and up Durant Avenue, thereby causing the block in which
this property is located to become business rather than residential.
This is merely recited for your general information.
Our proposed budget for 1949-50 submitted to the Finance Committee totals $20,642.43, detail of which is submitted as Exhibit 3
hereto, and is made up of $13,758.00 for ordinary operations, $3,884.43
for our usual depreciation and amortization and $3,000.00 for reimbursment of our reserves pursuant to the said recommendation of the
Finance Committee in their report of last year. You will notice in the
items comprising the ordinary budget of $13,758.00, certain fixed
charges such as salaries, taxes, insurance and public utility services,
which do not lend themselves to any appreciable reduction. We are
asking Grand Lodge, through the Finance Committee, to provide for
repairs and replacements the sum of $3.500.00 after having carefully
considered the matter through a special Budget Committee; the detail
of this item is to be found in the said proposed budget prepared by the
Auditor, Mr. Norman MacEachen.
Inasmuch as the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley represents an
investment of approximately $250,000.00, it behooves the members of
the fraternity, and particularly the officers of subordinate lodges, to
arrange that all students from their respective communities make the
greatest use of this magnificent facility which has been provided by
Grand Lodge, and we ask that you at all times give publicity to both
this clubhouse and the one in Los Angeles to the end that all who are
eligible to use the -clubhouse will be made acquainted with what is
available and will know the extent to which the Masons of California
have provided for students attending the State University.
Since this report was written, we have met with the Finance Committee and we believe that if the Finance Committee and Grand Lodge
will allow our budget as presented but with a reduction of $2,000 from
the first and main item thereof, we can, with your approval take care
of the purchase of the equipment and make the repairs included in
Footnote (a) out of reserve funds on hand and to be allowed this year.
Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN
Bovo B. RAKESTRAW
R. P. WISECARVER
EARL WARREN
RUSSELL
HORSTMANN
FRANK R. KILLINGER, JR.
LEO. E. SIEVERT
PAUL
BOREN

c.

s.

168

169

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit I-Report of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University,
Berkeley, California

Exhibit 2-Report of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University,
Berkeley, California

COPY

COPY
September 1, 1949

MASONIC CLUB
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA

To the Trustees of the Masonic Club
of the University, Berkeley, California
Bancroft and Bowditch Streets,
Berkeley, California

September 24, 1949
Board of Trustees
University Masonic Club
Bancroft and Bowditch
Berkeley 4, California

Brethren:
Pursuant to the definite understanding at the time I consented to
accept the Presidency, after the deaths of President Farmer and Vice
President Herms, I am now resigning as President of the corporationand also as a Trustee.

Gentlemen:
The University Masonic Club at the University of California in
Berkeley enjoyed a most successful year in the academic year of 194849. The membership of the fall semester was 562, while that of the
spring semester was 468.

Because of my intimate association with the inception of the movement for the building of the Clubhouse, and also in view of the fact that
I was one of the incorporators, and a member of the first Board of
Trustees of which I am the sole survivor, it is naturally with keen regret
and a bit of heart wrench that I now sever my connection with the
institution which has meant so much to me for so many years.
It will be remembered, however, by some of the Trustees that I had
intended retiring from the Board at the end of the term for which I had
been elected in 1945; and that I was induced by Brother Farmer (without much persuasion on his part, I must admit) to continue for another
term.

It has been difficult for me, living here in San Francisco, to attend
as many meetings of the Board as I feel a Trustee should; and this has
led to my determination to resign as a Trustee as well as President of
the corporation.
You will therefore please consider this as my resignation as President and also as a Trustee, to take effect October l, 1949.
I trust that you who know me need no assurance of my willingness,
indeed eagerness, to serve the Club whenever, and wherever, I can.
With affectionate fraternal greetings to all of you, and with my best
wishes for the Club and for the young men and women who associate
themselves with it.
Sincerely and cordially,
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS

CAA:S

..

The clubhouse, being centrally located and close to campus, was
used extensively throughout the year as a place for gathering with old
friends, for meeting and making friends with others having Masonic
affiliation, or as a place to rest and relax between classes, or to bone
up on that exam to be held later in the day. The club is all things to
all members; the noon hour may well illustrate the diversity of interests
as some prepare their repast in the kitchen so they may have a hot meal,
others bring a lunch from home while still others purchase theirs from
our own snack bar. There is ping-pong, pool, or bridge to relax the
over-taxed brain. It is difficult to estimate the number of members who
use the facilities daily, for so many are in and out many times daily.
An indication comes from the snack bar which served 50 to 60 persons
daily. An idea of attendance at the larger events of the two semesters
follows:
Fall Semester Open Houses (total) ···-·····'·--······-·····-·······················-900
Barn Dance ·········-·························································..350
Joint dance with UCLA Masonic Club........................225
Smoker -···--·············.:·········-·····-·············-~:.................•. 100
Big Game Dance •.................•....................................... _600
Pot-Luck Supper ............................................................ 60
Initiation dinner and dance ........•.................... ,... ...........575
New Council reception and dance ................................250
Spring Semester Open Houses --.. •·•·--····--··-...~·-·-~--¥·················-l 000

170

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Exhibit 3-Report of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University,
Berkeley, California

Fireside, speaker and movies ...................................... 100
New Members Dance •...•............................................. 200
Reception for Grand Master, dinner and dance.......... 450
Mardi Gras Costume Ball........ ....... . . .. .. . . .. . .
250
Initiation dinner and dance .......................................... 400
New Council Reception and dance .............................. 300

Masonic Club of the University, Berkeley, Calif.
Proposed Budget for 1949-50
Proposed
Norman MacEachen
Budget
1945-46

An attempt was made, during both semesters to present dances and
social evenings that would appeal to the majority of the mem'bership
while, at the same time, minority groups having interests in other fields
were not forgotten. Thus there were planned and executed in each
semester, a moonlight horseback ride and barbecue which were well
received by a small, but enthusiastic, group. In the spring, there was
a one--day snow trip by chartered bus to Echo Summit in the Sierras
which was sold out, one evening was devoted to the bowling and ice·
skating enthusiasts, and a very successful picnic was held at Mitchell
Canyon.
Some of the permanent special interest groups were quite active,
while others were not as active as they had been in the past. In the
former category was the club newspaper which was very helpful in
dissemination of club news and announcements. The snack bar was
quite active, keeping open daily from 11 :30 to 1 :30 and was a big
drawing card in bringing the members of the club to the clubhouse
during the noon hour. The photography club took pictures of all the
larger events and sold individual portraits to patrons of the dances to
help pay its loan to the Trustees. The idea of the photography club
being a "club within a club" was found to be unsatisfactory for several
reasons and arrangements have been made whereby the President will
appoint a qualified member as manager for the darkroom.
During the spring, considerable planning and thought, on the part
of Trustees and members, evolved a fine remodeling job for the clubhouse, and I am sure that the members appreciate the work that went
into this project. Unfortunately, during the spring, the club lost two of
its most loyal and unselfish trustees, Judge Milton T. Farmer and
Professor William B. Herms. Both of these fine men will be sorely
missed for their invaluable help and guidance.
The Fall President Jackie Clements, myself, and all members of the
club are especially grateful to Mrs. Morton, our club hostess and guiding
light, who has given unstintingly of her time to guide and counsel the
officers and members of the club throughout the year.
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
DoNALD A. MARSHALL, President, Spring 1949
University Masonic Club, Berkeley, California

171

• •

1946-47

1947-48

1948-49

1949-50

Resident Hostess ..........$ 1,800.00 $ 2,100.00 $ 2,400.00 $ 2,400.00 $ 2,400.00
Attendants ......................
300.00
710.25
750.00
652.50
900.00
Superintendent .............. 1,470.00 1,350.00 2,255.00 2,100.00 2,100.00
Cleaning & janitor wk.
539.00
300.00
Bookkeeper ....................
240.00
290.00
300.00
300.00
880.00
788.55
785.43
Heat and Light ............
454.52
744.66
150.00
111.21
112.99
Telephone ........................
99.58
115.01
100.00
92.82
93.12
Water ..............................
98.82
124.62
75.00
52.10
60.30
Garbage ..........................
27 .80
49.05
450.00
524.93
449.06
Janitor Supplies ............
381.56
518.24
75.00
65.00
Garden Expense ............
76.82
25.00
1.50
25.00
Office Supplies ..............
1.98
44.03
23.53
50.00
34.98
Laundry ..........................
30.30
24.48
293.62
250.00
226.09
Miscellaneous ................
274.01
186.61
921.97 (a)3,500.00
Repairs & replacements 2,863.41 5,499.00 8,347.38
45.00
50.00
46.50
Newspapers, periodicals
45.50
52.00
Taxes ................................ 1,364.96 1,690.24 1,853.28 1,892.52 2,000.00
399.34
400.00
378.65
[nsurance ........................
281.70
266.02
Fed. Old Age Pension
Tax ..........................
35.70
37.50
53.91
51.83
53.00
$ 9,769.84 $14,417.53 $18,307.18 $10,580.93 $13,758.00
Add: General Reserve
Depreciation &
126.06 3,884.43 3,884.43 3,884.43 3,884.43
Amortization ..........
282.00
282.00
280.00
Insurance ............... .
Building alterations
and extraordinary
.repairs and
34,325.05 3,ooo.oo•
replacements ....
$10,175.90 $18,583.96 $22,473.61 $48,790.41 $20,642.43
Grand Lodge
Appropriation ........$ 7,500.00 12,907.83 14,286.43 10,196.77
-do-For Repairs ............ 2,041.49 3,958.51 7,000.00
For Depree. & Amortization
3,884.43
For Bldg. Alterations & Extraordinary Repairs
20,000.00
Pledged for Bldg. Alterations & Extraordinary Repairs 15,000.00
$ 9,541.49 16,866.34 21,286.43 49,081.20
(a) Anticipated Repairs and Replacements 1949-50
Furniture Repairs - Lounge ···--··········-··$ 900.00
Binding Rug ......................................................
25.00
New Stair Tread Upstairs ..............................
80.00
New Stair Tread Downstairs ........................
70.00
Book Rack - Men's Room ............................
80.00
Repairs to Sidewalk ........................................ 250.00
Repairs to Grand Piano (bid) ......................
70.00
Ventilation Repairs (Attic) ............................ 200.00
Landscaping Grounds ...................................... 830.00
Holt Waxer, 14 inch with 40 ft. Cable........ 200.85
Estimated for other normal repairs............ 794.15
$3,500.00
•Namely, proposed reimbursement our reserves over 5 year period, commencing 1949-50.
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

172

173

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPOR}IIA

REPORT OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUB
HOUSE AT LOS ANGELES

During the year special meetings of the Board of Directors were
called by the chairman every sixty Clays at the Club House. The
Directors in attendance broke up into groups of two and ate dinner
with groups of students. These special meetings were usually called
on Tuesday evenings, the meeting time of the student council. so that
the Directors might not only get the pulse of the students informally
about the table. but might observe them in their business sessions.
These meetings have not only been mutually beneficial, but have contributed to a sense of unity of purpose and further cemented the bond
between the Directors and the students.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California:

It was just twenty years ago that the Masonic Club House at the
University of California at Los Angeles was built and opened for the
use of students of Masonic affiliation. At that time one could see but
a few structures of any kind within a radius of several miles. The
University was about to move to its new campus and the Westwood
Hills were much as nature had made them. Today the enrollment at
the University has increased from less than 3,000 to the present official
figure of 15,016, 12,143 undergraduates and 2.873 graduate students
and there is scarcely a parcel of ground that is not improved for business or residential purposes.
During the past year student activities have been more numerous
and diversified than in any previous year. Six hundred and fifty students were dues paying members of the club. The program has included formal and informal social affairs, charitable endeavors and
recreational activities.
Seven major dances were held with an average attendance of 275.
Informal parties held each Friday have been devoted to dancing, ice
skating. theatres and other recreation. The average attendance at
these week-end affairs has been 100.
One of the highlights of the year was the formal banquet and
reception tendered to the Grand Master. Attendance was 400 and the
Grand Master brought a message which was inspiring and duly appreciated.
The increased charitable interest of the student group was evidenced during the year by: the donation of the proceeds from one of
the formal balls to the camp for underprivileged children, a Thanksgiving Day dinner for thirty boys and girls from the All Nations
Institute who otherwise would not have had a Thanksgiving, a bimonthly tour of the campus and dinner for different boys and girls
selected by the All Nations Institute and the supplying of five volunteer
workers each week to that organization.
With a social program which has been too extensive to set out in
detail herein, it should be remembered however that the Club House
has continued to be a haven for study on a crowded campus and many
students would find association with it advantageous for this purpose
alone. In addition it has been possible for them to obtain meals buffet
style at near cost prices. Termed a Snack Bar. the food dispensing
facilities have grown to the point where cooks and others are employed
on a fu11 time basis; a neat return to the student group has been realized.

At the August meeting of the Board and again in September the
Chairman of the Board tendered his resignation from the Board because
of his Grand Lodge office, but the Board refused to accept it.
The Board has prepared and adopted the following budget for
the ensuing year:
Director of Activities ·······--·················--···-~-$ 2,820.00
Assistant to Director .......................................... 2, 100.00
Building Superintendent - janitorial................ 1,350.00
Heat. light, water and power.............................. 1,200.00
Taxes .................................................................. 2,000.00
Gardener ..............................................................
500.00
Stationery and printing ...,..................................
225.00
Telephone ················-··········································
225.00
General building maintenance ............................ 1,600.00
Partial cost of television set................................
150.00
Food mixer (additional equipment) ......,...........
250.00
Office expenses ....................................................
100.00
Newspapers and periodicals ..............................
140.00
Social security payments ....................................
260.00
Insurance ............................................................
75.00
Postage ................................................................
75.00
Auditing ..............................................................
150.00
Depreciation ( 1950) .......................................... 1,250.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................
300.00
Total........................................................$14,770.00

We respectfully direct the attention of the Grand Lodge and its
Committee on Finance to the .further fact that we have authorized the
expenditure of $2,200.00 for replacement of space heaters, $250.00 for
plumbing replacements and $250.00 for replacement of the kitchen sink.
While these items may be chargeable to our depreciation reserve, that

174

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

fund is being depleted because of withdrawals last year which were
made to replace other equipment which also was twenty years old.
Respectfully submitted,
OSCAR LAWLER
ELLSWORTH MEYER
MARCO R. NEWMARK
JoHN STEWART Ross
CLYDE c. SHOEMAKER
JOHN A. KLARQUIST
ELVIN c. DRAKE
EDWINW. WADE
MARION A. DUNCAN
MYRON E. SMITH
WILLIAM R. GALLAGHER
JoHN M. ASKIN
EARLE CRANE
JAMES R. PIERCE
Adopted.
A. CURTICE SMITH
Referred to Committee on Finance.

c.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CENTENNIAL
ARRANGEMENTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Special Committee on Centennial Arrangements has continued
exploration of an appropriate and practical program for the Centennial.
In that respect there have been meetings of the committee and informal
conferences. Also some sub-committees have been designated. The
Committee has made advantageous use of the study and suggestion
of the preceding committee.
The objectives to be attained have not been definitely formulated,
and as the detail must conform to the plan there is nothing to report
in that respect. In fact, it is only practical to inform Grand Lodge
at this time that satisfactory prograss is being made and that a comprehensive report should be prepared and submitted to the respective
lodges at an early date. As related to the objectives, the Committee
recommends appropriate legislation to permit the attendance of Master
Masons during the opening of Grand Lodge.
It is hoped to lease the space (in the Balboa Building. 593 Market
Street) which has been occupied for the purposes of management and
committees related to the entertainment of those attending the recent
Triennial Grand Encampment of Knights Templar. It is conveniently
located and the space will be required for Centennial management
and committee operations. Also, Brother William llinmack has been
engaged to serve as General Manager.
While the Committee on Finances recommended at the 1948 Communication that the Centennials Committee be authorized to make con-

175

tracts an~ commitments, as indicated, and that the Grand Secretary
be authorized to honor warrants against the Centennial Fund, it is
believed that the procedure should be clarified. For purposes of convenience and efficiency the Committee on Centennial Arrangements
should be empowered to delegate authority to approve claims and
necessary expenditures, including salaries and wages, for payment,
and that such should he audited and paid by the Grand Treasurer in
accordance with the ex(sting Grand Lodge procedure.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS v. KEESLING
HARVEY E. TELLER
JOHN R. MOORE
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE
CARL OLSEN
L. HAROLD ADERSON
ELLSWORTH MEYER
ARTHUR PAULSEN
Adopted.
Loms C. DRAPEAU
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the
Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF MEMORIAL BUILDING COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the 1948 Communication of Grand Lodge the Committee, now
known as Memorial Building Committee, reported that the objective
was an edifice that would serve the purposes of Grand Lodge, be appropriate for a memorial and productive o{ income. The Committee also
referred to the complex problems involved, including satisfactory location for all purposes, and finance.
Proceeding in accordance with the objectives we report important
negotiations, but that nothing sufficient has been developed to warrant
firm preliminary commitment.
There are sites being considered which fit the pattern and diligent
efforts are being made to complete negotiations, so that having developed a satisfactory basic plan, it may be submitted with sufficient
information for intelligent action by Grand Lodge.
It is the recommendation of the Committee that a Memorial Building Committee be continued.
Respectfully submitted,

Adopted.

FRANCIS v. KEESLING
WILLIAM.RHODES HERVEY
CHARLES E. MOORE
c. STANLEY CHAPMAN
JAMES HURST

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTION
MONTH OBSERVANCE

calculable rights which we denominate our Bill of Rights were to be
made the basis of our Government.
The .United States has emerged from the war as the most powerful
nation on earth. The system of government that has made all this possible, that has given us the highest standard of living ever known. that
has opened the way for our amazing progress. and has provided opportunity, happiness. and blessings not enjoyed anywhere else in the world
-such a system of government certainly is worth saving. And it must
be saved.
The Constitution of the United States has been a powerful force in
the lives of all of the people of the world and of all generations of people
ever since its adoption, although its authority does not extend beyond
the borders of our own country. Dictators and tyrants have succeeded
too well in keeping humanity in subjugation and ever in chains, but they
cannot extinguish the yearning for freedom from men and women who
know that for more than a century and a half a way of life has prevailed
in America which lends dignity to the people and enriches and ennobles
them according to their worthiness.
With such a system of government and law established in the world,
even though only one nation enjoyed it and prospered under it, no
aspiration for a similar way of life in any part of the world is futileand it is the worldwide understanding and appreciation of that fact
which has given universal importance to the Constitution of the United
States ever since its adoption.
As A~erica faces the future let us pause to recollect that the farseeing vision of our constitutional fathers resulted in an instrument of
government which no foe of human rights has penetrated and survival
of which has met every challenge to the natural rights of man. Our most
formidable fortress of defense in time of stress still remains the Constitution of the United States.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to submit a report of the Committee of the Grand
Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of California on Constitution Month
Observance.
The Committee is pleased to advise you that more interest has been
demonstrated throughout the Jurisdiction in the matter of this Observance during the year just concluded than has attended the efforts of the
Committee during any former year. The Brethren throughout the Jurisdiction have responded well to the various requests directed to them by
the Committee, and we wish to take this opportunity to thank them for
their support and interest. The Inspectors of the various districts were
also of considerable assistance, and we likewise express our thanks to
them. The Committee has worked in harmony, and the utmost assistance
and cooperation was present at all times. I wish to take this opportunity
to express my sincere thanks for the efforts which they have expended.
The Committee wishes to thank those members of the Craft too
numerous to set forth with particularity, but who responded so well to
our pleas for speakers.
The reports which the Lodges have forwarded to the Grand Secretary's office tabulate 330 meetings with a total attendance of 29,155
divided as follows:
214 Closed meetings: 14,317 attended.
116 Open meetings: 14,838 attended.
Constitution Month Observance in California has now become an
accepted tradition, and this is due in large part to the efforts of this
Grand Lodge. While it is true that for many years we were the only
fraternal organization in this State committed to an observance of the
birth of the Constitution, we now find that scores of other fraternal and
civic organizations have joined in a general observance of the n<:ltal day
of the Constitution. This is a healthy situation to note.
I wish also to express my sincere appreciation to our Most Worshipful Grand Master, Edward H. Siems, who during the entire Masonic
year impressed upon Mason and citizen alike the necessity for a strict
observance of this sacred document, and may I likewise express my
deep appreciation for the cooperation and assistance of our Grand Secretary. Lloyd E. Wilson. By reason of their endeavors Masonry
throughout the Jurisdiction has made substantial contributions to the
cause of good government, thus renewing our commitment to the American way of life and the worthy principles espoused by this immortal
document.
Ours is a overnment by the majority, but it is something vastly
more. When our forefathers met at Independence Hall in Philadelphia
to frame the Constitution. they were familiar with the lessons of history,
and so they determined that the liberty of the individual and those in-

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM R. McKAY
}AMES T. FRASER
LEE T. MULLEN
DONALD ADAMS
JoHN McRAE
DUDLEY H. NEBECKER
EDWIN S. W. ERICKSON
GEORGE W. PARKER
WILLIAM BACHMAN
ALBERT GORDON
WILLIAM P. SELF
DARRELL Ross PURCELL
Adopted.
WILLIAM W . McKEE
Referred to Committee on Finance.

177

178

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Most Worshipful Shalor C. Eldridge, Grand Master of Masons
in the Jurisdiction of Oregon, addressed Grand Lodge at the invitation
of the Grand Master, and the address was enthusiastically received.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Gr~nd Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Lodge Financing presents herewith a brief
review of its activities during the past year.
It is apparent from the number of applications received and inquiries
directed to the committee that, with few exceptions, the officers of lodges
and temple associations are anxious to comply with the provisions of
Section 78 and 152 dealing with lodge financing. Not only are they
willing to comply. but it is evident from the requests coming to the members of your committee for advice and counsel in financial problems that
they welcome the service we have endeavored to render.
While this report must necessarily be confined to a brief statement
concerning each application or request presented to your committee, a
complete file covering all the facts in each case is available in the office
of the Grand Secretary.
The report of the committee follows:
Repairs, alterations and additions to property of Lodges and Temple
Associations received committee consent in amounts and particulars as
to financing as set forth:
The Brooklyn Masonic Temple Association, Oakland. $13,000 by
loan of $10,000 from Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 and cash on hand.
Northern Light Lodge No. 190, Millville. $6,000 from Lodge general funds.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322, Alhambra. $5,000 from Lodge general
funds.
R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616, Seal Beach. $4,000 by contributions
from Lodge members.
Maxwell Masonic Hall Association, Maxwell. $7.500 by bank loan
of $6.000 and remainder from cash on hand.
Montebello Masonic Temple Association, Montebello. $5,000 by
loan from Montebello Lodge No. 451.
Buckeye Lodge No. 195, Winters. Consent given in 1948 for
$10,000 financed by bank loan was amended to $12,000 with loan increased to like amount.
Atwater 622 Association, Inc., Los Angeles. $2,929.56 from cash.
on hand.
Consent was given to the following Lodges to cause incorporation
of Temple Associations to further the purchase of sites and erection of
buildings for lodge occupancy. With two exceptions there was an investment or transfer of property by the Lodge in exchange for the con-

....

179

trolling interest as provided by Section 152. In each case the Ar~i~les
of Incorporation or By-Laws embraced an acceptable plan for ra1smg
funds:
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655, Long Beach. To incorporate Monte
Vista Masonic Temple Association and invest $16,250.
Bell Lodge No. 483, Bell. To incorporate Bell Masonic Temple
Association, transfer title to building site and invest $3,000.
Unity Lodge No. 368, Glendale. To incorporate Unity Masonic
Temple Association.
.
York Lodge No. 423, Los Angeles. To incorporate York Masonic
Temple Association and transfer title to building sit~.
.
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331, Pacific Grove. To incorporate Pacific
Grove Masonic Temple Association, transfer building site and lease
for Lodge quarters.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, Los Angeles. To incorporate Mount
Olive Building Association and invest $100.
.
.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592, Tujunga. To incorporate Tu1unga Masonic
Temple Association and invest $100.
Kaweah Lodge No. 665, Woodlake.
To incorporate Kaweah
Masonic Temple Association and invest $100.
Georgetown Lodge No. 25, Georgetown. To incorporate Georgetown Masonic Temple Association and transfer title to real property.
Torrance Lodge No. 447, Torrance. To incorporate Torrance
Masonic Temple Association, a membership type, non-profit corporation, to take over the assets of a taxable corporation in dissolution, with
Torrance Lodge holding the controlling interest.
The committee consented to the purchase of building sites and additions to property owned by the following Lodges and Temple Associations for considerations as listed.
.
Greenleaf Masonic Temple Association, Whittier. $10,500 by sale
of $3,000 TempJe Association's regular memberships to Greenleaf
Lodge No. 670, $4,000 loan from Lodge, secured by deed of trust on
property, and balance from cash on hand.
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668, Banning. $1,500 from Lodge general
funds.
Foothill Temple Association, Oakland. $20,050 from cash on hand.
Reseda Masonic Building Association, Reseda. $7,125 by down
payment of $5,788.21 from cash on hand, with the balance to be paid
in ninety days from contributions from members of Reseda Lo?ge
No. 666.
Bellflower Masonic Temple Association, Bellflower. $4,000 by sale
of $4,000 Temple Association's regular memberships to Bellflower
Lodge No. 523.
Mt. Diablo Lodge No. 448, Concord. $3,000 by $500 cash from

180

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge general funds and the balance at $50 per month with interest
at4%.
North Butte Lodge No. 230, Gridley. $1,700 from Lodge general
funds.
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626, Chula Vista. $5,000 from Lodge
general funds.
EI Segundo Masonic Temple Association, EI Segundo. $2.500 by
sale of $2,500 Temple Association's voting memberships to EI Segundo
Lodge No. 507.

Consent to negotiate leases for lodge quarters was given as follows:
Los Flores Masonic Temple Association, Los Angeles. Ten year
lease with building owner and sub-leases for a similar term with Los
Angeles Lodge No. 42, La Brea Lodge No. 650, Henry Knox Lodge
No. 662 and other bodies.
San Carlos Lodge No. 690, San Carlos. To cause the incorporation
of San Carlos Masonic Hall Association for the purpose of acquiring
a lease expiring September 1, 1958, from Arroyo Fraternal Hall Holding Committee, with the Lodge obtaining control of the corporation by
an investment of $1,000.
John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657, San Diego. Five year lease from
July I. 1949.
The most pleasing task before your committee during the year was
the consideration of requests for permission and consent given to commence the erection of Temples. In some of the cases enumerated all of
the labor incident to building was volunteered by craftsman lodge members, in others a goodly portion. It is particularly gratifying that the
financing of these buildings will include no fixed debt other than one
non-interest bearing loan by a Lodge to its Temple Association, with
possibly one exception, and in that case a small amount in proportion
to the total investment. Incorporated in the consent given to each
applicant was the stipulation that no liabilities be incurred beyond those
currently approved without further consultation with the committee.
Lodge room design had the attention of the District Inspector with
respect to suitability for proper tiling and where ground_Boor lodge
rooms were planned the attention of the Grand Master.
Van Nuys Masonic Building Association, Van Nuys. Suitable
plans to effect the erection of a one purpose Masonic Temple at an
estimated cost of $100,000 were presented. To carry out the undertaking
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450 was given permission to transfer to the
Building Association a site owned and $56,500 cash. The Building
Association had in its treasury approximately $20,000, which together
with the funds advanced by the Lodge would complete the building
so as to be usable for all lodge purposes. It was estimated the necessary
funds for final overall completion could be secured from indicated con~
tributions and in addition, the estimated total cost might be reduced
by donated labor and materials.
North Hollywood Masonic Temple Association, North Hollywood.
This Temple Association proposed to erect a Temple on a site valued
at $10,000. A contractor member agreed to complete the main exterior
portion of the structure for an estimated $53,000, to _b e reduced by
donated labor and material. The final work on completion was to be
largely done by donated labor and sub~contracts with members at
bare cost.

Burbank Lodge No. 406, Burbank. $22,500 from Lodge general
funds.
Salinas Masonic Hall Association, Salinas. $32,500 by sale of
$10,000 in Association's stock to Salinas Lodge No. 204 and balance
from cash on hand.
Crescenta Valley Masonic Temple Association, Montrose. $9.000
from cash on hand.
Los Gatos Lodge· No. 292, Los Gatos. $4,350 from Lodge general
funds.
Lodges applied for and received consent to acquire stock or memberships of their Temple Associations from individuals in amounts and in
the manner of payment as follows:
Anaheim Lodge No. 207, Anaheim. 15 shares stock Anaheim
Masonic Temple Association at $50 per share.
Coachella Lodge No. 476, Coachella. 420 shares stock Coachella
Masonic Temple Association at $10 per share.
Laurel Lodge No. 245, Willows. $1,000 in preferred stock of
Willows Masonic Temple Association at not to exceed par value of
$100 per share.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307, Santa Monica. 100 shares stock of
Masonic Temple Association of Santa Monica at $25 per share.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422, Eagle Rock. 190 shares stock of Eagle
Rock Masonic Building Association on the basis of one $50 U. S. Series
"E" Savings Bond for each share to non-members and to members,
one $50 U. S. Series "E" Savings Bond or five years paid up dues for
each share.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367, South Pasadena. Regular membership representing controlling interest in South Pasadena Masonic Temple Association for not to exceed $2,500 and surrender of Temple
Association's $3,650 note for cancellation. This investment by the
Lodge enabled the Temple Association to clear the mortgage debt
on the Temple building.

182

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The Association had in hand some $40,000 in cash and U. S. Bonds,
including an approved investment of $16,000 from Lankershim Lodge
No. 542. The Lodge held, exclusive of its investment in the Temple
Association, approximately $17,000. Evidence indicated further funds
would be forth coming through the sale of contributing memberships
in the Temple Association with the announcement that construction of
the Temple was under way.
Granada Masonic Temple Association, Alhambra. Granada Lodge
No. 608 caused the subject corporation to be organized with an authorized capital of $55,000 divided into 500 shares Class "A" and 500
shares Class "B" stock. The control of the corporation was acquired
by transfer from the Lodge to the Temple Association of a site in
exchange for all Class "A" and the purchase of 2 shares Class "B"
stock. An addition to the original site was conveyed, together with the
transfer of $7,500 from the Lodge to the Temple Association in consideration of notes aggregating $12,500.
It was the present intention to erect only that portion of the building
adequate for all lodge purposes and at a later date the addition of a
more commodious banquet room.
Reliable estimate fixed the cost of building at $33,621 with a substantial portion of labor donated by members of Granada Lodge. The
Temple Association had available $33,500 from the sale of stock and
loan from the Lodge. The financial condition of the Lodge showed
approximately $12,000, exclusive of investment in the Temple Association and Life Membership fund.
Florence Masonic Temple Association, Los Angeles.
Florence
Lodge No. 649, requested permission to invest $13,000 from general
funds in the Temple Association. This investment, together with
funds contributed to the Temple Association, made available approximately $21.400. In addition the Temple Association held pledges for
contributions of some $3,000 and it was expected another $10,000
could be raised from contributions when the erection was under way.
Contractor's estimate showed a total cost of a proposed building,
including all labor and material, at $49,128.10. The major part of this
cost was to be eliminated by the pledge of 800 hours of donated labor
per month by members of the Lodge skilled in building trades.

a total sum of $37,600 to be reduced by donated labor and material to
$31,600. The applicant had in hand cash and U. S. Bonds in the amount
of $25,242.23 and pledges for contributions of $6,425, all of which were
deemed collectible.
Garden Grove Masonic Temple Association, Garden Grove. Plans
and estimates of cost for the construction of a Temple on land owned
were presented by the subject Temple Association.
The members of Garden Grove Lodge No. 586 had purchased the
material and donated the labor in the making of 15,000 cement blocks
of which the building was to be constructed. The cost estimates of
materials and a minimum of paid labor necessary to complete the structure was $11,766.07. The major portion of labor and much of the
material was pledged without cost by members of the Lodge.
Financial statement of the Temple Association listed cash and U. S.
Bonds as $13,837.86, with pledges of another $1,000 to be forth coming
when the building foundation was poured.
Bell Masonic Temple Association, Bell. Plans for the erection of a
Temple to be built in two sections, with that portion of the building
adequate for all lodge purposes presently considered, were presented.
The Temple Association held title -to a suitable building lot, and
here again the brethren of Bell Lodge No. 483 were prepared to furnish
the labor of building. Detail estimates of material showed a total cost
of $11,183. Funds in the Temple Association treasury totaled $10,185
with Bell Lodge, owning the controlling interest in the Temple Association, having in its general fund cash and U. S. Bonds amounting to
$23,453.
Miscellaneous applications of a varied nature handled by your committee follow:
West Gate Lodge No. 335, Los Angeles. During the year 1925 this
Lodge caused West Gate Building Corporation to be organized. Subsequently a lot was acquired and thereafter a three story brick building
erected, the second and third floors for lodge purposes and the ground
floor for commercial rentals.
The cost of the lot, building and furnishings amounted to $265,886.80. The project was financed through the purchase by West Gate
Lodge of 276 shares of the corporation's stock of $27,600, institutional
loan for $110,000 secured by a trust deed and the issuance of $124,700
20 year 6% unsecured notes primarily to members. At later times the
corporation borrowed $8,600 from various members on 5 year 6%
notes .a nd the Lodge purchased an additional 483 shares of stock for
$48,300.
Payments have reduced the first trust deed to a present principal
of $40,886.41, with the balance payable at $400 per month, including

Pacific Grove Masonic Temple Association, Pacific Grove. During
the year your committee consented to the organization of the non-profit
corporation and the transfer to it of a building site by Pacific Grove
Lodge No. 331.
Your committee consented to the erection of a two story hall with
the second flood suitable for lodge use and the ground floor for commercial rental. Firm bids from reliable contractors were received for

183

184

185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

interest, with the unpaid principal falling due June 1, 1954. There are
presently outstanding $131,500 in 6% notes on which the interest has
been in default since January 1, 1932.
.
The corporation was not in financial condition to pay the outstanding
unsecured indebtedness. However, West Gate Lodge had sufficient
funds to work out a compromise settlement with the note holders without
jeopardizing its financial condition.
Your committee gave consent to a plan, previously submitted to a
large portion of the note holders to which they signified their willingness, whereby the Lodge would purchase the unsecured notes of the
corporation at approximately 30% of the principal thereof, excluding
interest, for a total sum of $39,450. Our consent was predicated on
acceptance in writing of the proposed settlement by the holders of not
less than 85% of the subject notes, and further that West Gate Building Corporation agree to waive the statute of limitations on some $8,300
of outlawed notes included.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, Los Angeles. Oildale Lodge No. 688.
Bakersfield. These two Lodges presented for committee examination
resolutions creating building funds, and in each case embracing a plan
for raising money for the purpose stated. Your committee was of the
opinion that the steps taken were proper and gave consent.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400, Burlingame. A request to transfer
$1,500 from Lodge general funds to Burlingame Masonic Hall Ass~
ciation to be used to further reduce a mortgage loan on the Temple
received consent.
Angeles Mesa Building Association, Los Angeles. Amended Articles
of Incorporation and By-Laws providing a means for raising funds to
further a building program, when such project is approved, were examined. Your committee found no objection and gave consent.
San Marino Foundation, Inc., San Marino. This corporation having for its primary purpose the acquisition of a lodge home for San
Marino Lodge No. 685 acquired approximately six acres in the City of
San Marino with intent to erect a Masonic Temple thereon. Zoning
restrictions prohibited a building of this type on the property and it was
found a variance could not be secured without considerable difficulty.
Therefore, it was the decision of the Lodge that the land be disposed of.
Application was made to your committee for permission to use an
estimated $12.500 of the corporation's funds to prepare the property
for sub-dividing and public sale.
Your committee was of the opinion, while it might be true through
a sub-division a handsome profit might be made for the corporation,
there was a definite business risk involved, and that it was never contemplated that Masonry should enter the business world with a venture
designed for financial gain; that Masonry was still a fraternal order

dependent upon its members, and not upon independent business ventures for support. The request for such project was, therefore, disapproved.
Pacific Grove Masonic Temple Association, Pacific Grove. After
your committee gave consent to the erection of a Masonic Temple, a
subsequent request was received for permission to erect an office building on a portion of land not occupied by the Temple; to finance the office
building project by soliciting the members of Pacific Grove Lodge No.
331 to underwrite a $20,000 5% note issue secured by deed of trust.
It appeared this procedure might be in contravention to Sections 126
and 127, therefore the Temple Association was advised to (:Onsult with
the Grand Master prior to any action by this committee.
North East Lodge No. 266, Fort Bidwell. This committee gave
consent to North East Lodge to erect a two story lodge hall, based on
drawings, estimate of cost and their ability to finance the project. Thereafter it was found the construction cost of the building contemplated
would double the original estimate.
·
A revised plan for a one story building has now been presented and
the estimate of cost well within the ability of the Lodge to take care of
the financing.
Your committee is presently awaiting additional information requested, upon the receipt of which it is hoped final consent to commence
the erection of the building may be given.
At the time of compiling this report there were, in ·addition, three
applications held pending the receipt of additional information requested.
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, North Sacramento. Request
for permission to transfer funds from the Lodge to their Temple corporation.
Mill Valley Masonic Temple Association, Mill Valley. Relating to
alterations and improvements to Temple property.
Victorville Lodge No. 634, Victorville. Application for consent to
purchase building site.
Our files show correspondence with or relating to Glendale Lodge
No. 544. Plumas Lodge No. 60, Petaluma Lodge No. 180, San Clemente
Lodge No. 671, Traver Lodge No. 294, San Dimas Lodge No. 428.
Redwood Empire Lodge No. 683, Benicia Lodge No. 5, Madison Lodge
No. 23, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38, Caledonia Lodge No. 486. Glendora
Lodge No. 101, Suisun Lodge No. 55, America Lodge No. 475, Porterville Lodge No. 303, Canby Cross Lodge No. 679, Mt. Jackson Lodge
No. 295, Palm Springs Lodge No. 693, Claiborne Lodge No. 185, Reedley Lodge No. 304, Searchlight Lodge No. 567, Chowchilla Lodge No.
485, Vermont Square Lodge No. 515, New Fontana Masonic Temple
Association, Masonic Temple Association of San Leandro, Menlo Park

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Temple Association, Euclid Temple Association, Escondido Masonic
Temple Association, Manteca Masonic Temple As~ociation, Masonic
Temple Association of Fruitvale, San Bernardino Masonic Temple
Association, Humboldt Masonic Temple Association and a Committee
for Fresno Lodges. In none of these cases was any permission given for
the expenditure of funds.
Your committee recommends an appropriation of $800 be made to
cover necessary expense for the coming year.
As you may well see the work of the committee requires of its members much time and effort during the year, therefore, as Chairman, I
take this opportunity to express to the members my appreciation for
their willing co-operation.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER L. BERGER
WALTON E. HOLMES
RICHARD A. STEVES
WALTER

J. PYBON

ALBERT T. LUCK

E. HERBERT PHILLIPS
ALFRED M. ARENZ

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

187

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
PUBLICATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on Publication of Masonic History of Masonry in
California wishes to make the following report:
We have received from Past Grand Master Leon Whitsell sufficient
data to make an estimate of the cost of publication.
The transcript submitted will make about two thousand pages or
four volumes.
We are submitting samples of various kinds of bindings, types of
paper and specimens of type.
The cost of printing is as follows:
Sample No. 1 1000 sets of 4 volumes with case $23.25 per set
1500 sets of 4 volumes with case 19 .00 per set
2000 sets of 4 volumes with case 17.00 per set
Sample No. 2 ·
1000 sets of 4 volumes with case $23.50 per set
1500 sets of 4 volumes with case 19.20 per set
2000 sets of 4 volumes with case 17.35 per set
Sample No. 3 1000 sets of 4 volumes with case $23.60 per set
1500 sets of 4 volumes with case 19.20 per set
2000 sets of 4 volumes with case 17.50 per set
Sample No. 4 - .
1000 sets of 4 volumes with case $27.20 per set
1500 sets of 4 vo)umes with case 23.45 per set
2000 sets of 4 volumes with case 21.60 per set
The above prices are approximate.
In calling for competitive bids these prices may be reduced materially.
If the Grand Lodge wishes to proceed with the publication of
Masonic History of Masonry in California we respectfully ask that the
total sums in accordance with sample selected and the quantity to be
ordered be appropriated.
Respectfully submitted,
WASHINGTON I. KOHNKE
}OHNT. BOND
A.F.HUER

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an Analysis of the
Consolidated Returns of the Lodges of this jurisdiction for the year
1948-1949.
Membership 1948
183,198
Gains .
Members raised
10,088
Affiliated
1,950
Restored
388
Gained by error
21
Total
12,H7
Losses
Members withdrawn
1,609
Suspended N. P. D.
647
Died
2,821
Expelled
20
Loss by error
5
Total
5,102
Net gain in membership
7,345
Total net membership 1949
190,543
Dues remitted
2,361
New Lodges
3
Total lodges
599
We note a gain of members suspended for Non Payment of Dues.
Our average for the past five years was 474. More effort should be
made to reduce this drain on membership.
Why should members withdraw from the Craft? The average
withdrawals for the past five years was 1.415. This number was increased this past year by 164 over last year. Are we exercising due
care in the taking in of new members? Is it a loss of interest in the work
of the craft or our lack in following our new members on.ce they have
joined?
We note a small increase in the death list of our older members.
May their memory be preserved in our future lodge work.
Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Returns
HENRY G. MATHEWSON

Adopted.

WILLIAM W. McKEE
FRANCIS J. HERTZ
WILLIAM G. BUXTON
SHERMAN D. WILLIAMS
CHARLES R. MEYERS
JAMES H. WALL

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

REPORT OF SPECIAL TAXATION COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Taxation Committee composed of Robert R. York, James E.
Hammond and R. P. Wisecarver was appointed for the current Masonic
year.
The work of the Committee has been almost entirely devoted to
answering queries from the subordinate lodges or their temple associations. Each of these problems is governed by its special facts and no
good purpose would be served by a detailed discussion of each case.
All have been handled and disposed of by correspondence.
We insert the following letter as an example of the type of information given out by the Committee, because it has a wide application:
"We have your question relayed to us through Brother
Oliphant as to whether lodges have to carry workmen's compensation insurance. The answer is 'yes.'
"Section 3300, Labor Code, provides that every person is
an employer within the meaning of the Code, who has any
natural person in its service. A 'person' is defined as an individual. firm, voluntary association, or a public or quasi-public
or private corporation.
"Section 3351 provides that an employee means every person in the service of an employer under any appointment or
contract of hire or apprenticeship, express or implied, oral or
written, whether lawfully or unlawfully employed.
"Section 3352 of the Labor Code specifies certain exceptions, but none of them have any application to the Masonic
Lodge.
"Section 3700, Labor Code, provides that every private
employer must either procure insurance in an admitted compensation insurance carrier or procure a certificate of consent
to self-insure upon furnishing satisfactory evidence of financial
responsibility. The usual requirement is a minimum of
$30,000.00 bonds for such self-insurance.
"Section 3706, Labor Code, provides that if no insurance
is carried, the employee may bring a suit for damages against
the employer, may attach his property and it will be presumed
the employer's negligence caused the injury; and Section 3710
provides for a fine of $300.00 for failure to be insured, and the
employer's business may be abated as a nuisance.
"Hence, we repeat you had better be insured."
For the second consecutive year Congress has failed to act on
numerous bills pending that would greatly affect the Federal Tax situation. This stalemate will undoubtedly be resolved in the near future

191

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

and some legislation affecting the tax structure of Grand Lodge is to be
expected.

letting of bids to responsible bidders that a definite figure might be sub-mitted for your earnest consideration at this session.
The bids have been received and the lowest firm bid amounts to
$39,666.00. To this should be added the following items: Architectural
fee of 6%. $2,379.00; Tests, $50.00; Fire Insurance ( 1 year), $180.00;
Bond 1 %. $397.00; Contingencies, $1,000.00, making a sum total of
$43,672.00 as recommended by the architect.
Attached hereto and made a part hereto is the report of Architect
Donald Beach Kirby of the architectural firm of Donald Beach Kirby
and Thomas B. Mulvin of San Francisco. Also attached hereto are the
several bids received up to 12:00 o'clock noon today giving the names
of the bidders and the amount of the bids.
Your committee feels as it did last year that this shrine to Masonry
on the Mother Lode should be built for dedication before our Centennial Session in 1950.
Therefore, we recommend the following resolution and move its
adoption:
RESOLVED: ( 1) That the sum of $43,672.00 be appropriated and set
aside from the reserves of Grand Lodge for the restoration of the
Masonic Temple at Columbia in accordance with the revamped plans
and specifications on file with the Grand Secretary. ( 2) That the Committee on Restoration of the Columbia Masonic Temple be continued
and upon the completion and acceptance of said building by said committee that there be filed by said committee with Grand Lodge a report
setting forth complete plans for the future care, operation and maintenance of the restored building, together with the necessary rules and
regulations to govern the use of same.

190

It is the recommendation of the Committee that its name be changed
to: Special Committee on Taxation, as it has been the custom to submit
various taxation problems to it.
R. P. WISECARVER
}AMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YORK
Adopted.

REPORT OF COLUMBIA TEMPLE RESTORATION
COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge:
Your Committee on Columbia Temple Restoration begs leave to
submit the following report:
At the last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge you authorized
an appropriation out of Grand Lodge reserves of approximately
$38,000.00 for the purpose of rebuilding said Temple and properly
furnishing same.
The temple to be rebuilt on the site of the old structure completed
in 185 5 and sold and razed in 1891 following the consolidation of
Columbia Lodge No. 28, with Tuolumne Lodge. No. 8 at Sonora.
The Grand Master in his address succinctly recited the steps taken
in furtherance of this project since last October, therefore we feel that
it is not necessary to restate them in this report. But for the steps taken
by the Grand Master and the special committee appointed by him to
investigate the matter further, your committee on restoration might
have let contracts and begun the building of the temple and then been
forced to appeal to Grand Lodge for an additional appropriation to
complete same. We feel that in the light of subsequent developments
as outlined by the Grand Master, he pursued the proper course and we
are in full accord with the action taken by him.
We respectfully refer to our report at the last Annual Communication wherein the proposed plan was set forth in minute detail together
with a full and complete history of the Columbia State Park up to that
date.
Your committee in that report set out an estimate of costs of operation and the expected revenues per year. The estimated revenues
exceeded the costs incident to the yearly operation and maintenance
of the temple when completed.
The Grand Master pursuant to the revamped plans authorized the

Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITESELL
IRA w. COBURN
JOHN A. KLARQUIST
OTTo J. MouRoN
BERT BULLOCK
October 11, 1949

..

Grand Lodge,
Free and Accepted Masons
of California
25 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have just received competitive bids for the proposed reconstruc-

192

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON APPLICATION FORMS
AND INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE PROCEDURE

tion of the Temple at Columbia. Listed below is our recommended
budget for this project:
Low Bid ·············································-·--·-······$39.666:00
Fees - 6% ........................................................ 2,379.00
Tests ····································································
50.00
Fire Insurance - 1 year ....................................
180.00
Bond - 1 % ........................................................
397.00
Contingencies ...................................................... 1,000.00
Total

193

$43,672.00

Very sincerely yours,
DONALD BEACH KIRBY

DBK/gm
Masonic Hall at Columbia, California
Bid Opening: October 11, 1949
Name of Bidder
Amount of Bid
George Bates, 9590 Olive Street, Oakland 3............ $39,666.00
Don Younger, 111 Sutter Street, San Francisco...... 46,462.00
Richards-Rand & Co.. Constructors,
225 Front Street, San Francisco 11 .................... 46,720.00
Warren S. Young, Sonora, California ...................... 49,894.00
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to the
Committee on Jurisprudence and to the Committee on Finance.

>

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren:
Your Committee on Application Forms and Investigating Committee Procedure reports as follows:
Our Most Worshipful Grand Master, in his travels throughout
the jurisdiction, found much concern in the subordinate lodges over
the form of some of the questions in our application forms, and the lack
of some questions which were thought to be essential to secure adequate information as to the past history of applicants for degrees and
affiliation.
Our Most Worshipful Grand Master also found great concern
over our present investigating procedures and the more or less superficial investigations of applicants which were being made, resulting in
many undersirable men becoming members of our fraternity.
In order to crystalize the thoughts which had beea expressed, and
solve these most important problems, our Most Worshipful Grand
Master wrote to many interested brethren, and to all of the Inspectors,
requesting that the recommendations of the officers and members of
the constituent lodges be ascertained and reported to him. A large file
of recommendations was thus accumulated which disclosed almost
universal concern as to the form of our applications and a unanimous
desire for more effective investigating procedures. This committee was,
therefore, appointed to review the fl.le and make its recommendations
to the Grand Lodge.
This committee compiled a digest of the recommendations of the
lodges, officers and districts, and is recommending to this Grand
Lodge the questions and procedures which were most universally
suggested.
We give you the background and procedure of this committee to
emphasize the fact that this report is not the ideas of a few men but is
the compilation of the wishes of the majority of those who reported.
It is a statement of what the majority of you brethren have asked for.
We will first cover the majority of recommendations for changes
in the application forms. They are as follows, and only apply to Applications for Degrees, unless otherwise stated:
1. That the question, "state explicity your business occupation for
the past ten years, and where conducted", be changed to, "state
you occupatiomt, name of employers, and location for past 10
years", followed by "From, To, Occupation, Employer, Employer's Address", with sufficient space to give the history of his
employment. The present question does not call for employer's
name or address and many reported that occupation was often
answered by giving only the employer's name. The detailed

194

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

information called for by the new form of question would be of
great assistance to the investigating committee. This recom~
mendation includes adding this question to application for affiliation forms also.
2. That the questions, "Have you resided in the State of California
the twelve months last past, and the place above named more
than six months?" and "Where have you resided the ten years
last past? If in more than one place, state the particular years
in each place", be changed to, "List the places where you have
resided during the past ten years and length of residence at each
place", followed by. "From, To, Residence (Street, Number,
City & State)". The present question can be answered by listing
cities. The new question would require detailed information as to
residence which would be very helpful to the investigating committee and answer the present long question. This recommendation applies to application for affiliations forms also.
3. That the .question, "Do you know of any physical. legal or moral
reason which would prevent you from becoming a Freemason?",
be changed to, "Do you know of any moral reason which would
prevent you from becoming a Freemason?", because the applicant
knows nothing of the physical and legal requirements of our
fraternity and is, accordingly. in no position to properly answer
questions on those requirements.
4. That the question, "State particularly any physical deformity
or defect". be changed to, "Describe thoroughly any physical
deformity or defect and any serious disease you have or have
had." The thought most universally expressed was the the
present question did not call for enough detailed information.
The questions the great majority thought should be added to the
application forms, and would not unduly lengthen the form, were as
follows:
1. That the question, "Of what country are you a citizen?", be
added in order to ascertain whether or not the applicant is a
citizen of the United States and if not, of what country is he a
citizen?
2. "Have you ever been arrested for a crime other than minor
traffic violations?-1£ so. where, when and what for?" It was
strongly felt we need that information so the investigating committee can check further and to put the applicant on record right
at the start. This recommendation applies to application for
affiliation forms, also.
. . . Those are the only additional questions ~e are recommending.
There were over 50 additional questions suggested. Some have been
included in a list of questions for investigating committees. There were

many general suggestions made as to investigating procedure. The
majority recommended as follows:
1. That the Inspectors be instructed to include a discussion of
investigating applicants in the program for one or more of the
district officers' association meetings.
2. That the officers, past masters and interested members, act as
a personnel committee or advisory board and meet with the applicant prior to the stated meeting at which the application is
received or will be balloted upon to thoroughly interview the
applicant. This would enable the officers to ge acquainted with
the applicant and supplement the investigating committee report.
The committee recommends:
1. That lodges have a regular committe for investigating applicants.
This committee would be appointed by the Master and its
membership would not be publicized. It would meet at the call
of the Master at least once a year, perferably in January. to
discuss and be instructed in the duties of an investigating committee and investigating procedures. Wherever possible. applica~
tions would be ref erred to members of this committee for invesfr
gation. It was felt that there are many members in our lodges
who would be glad to serve on this most important committee
and this procedure would gradually develop a competent and
fairly well trained group of· investigators to replace the more or
less hit or miss present system.
The recommendations as to the investigating committees themselves
were as follows:
1. That a printed sheet of instructions be furnished to each member of an investigating committee in place of the present form of
Reference of Application for Degrees. This form would read as
follows:
REFERENCE OF APPLICATION FOR DEGREES OR AFFILIATION

Hall of ....................................................Lodge No .................• F. & A. M.
····•···········································• 19..... - .....
READ THIS THRU CAREFULLY BEFORE PROCEEDING

Brother:
I hereby appoint you to investigate the character of ................................
Resi~ence Address ................................................

>

Telephone ............... .

Business Address .................................................. Telephone ...............
whose application for the degrees of Masonry. or affiliation, was re~
ceived by our Lodge at its last stated meeting.
It is your duty to "make strict examination into the moral. mental
and physical and other proper qualifications of the applicant and to

196

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

report thereon to the Master at the next stated meeting" to be holden
........................................................, 19............•
If you need more time to investigate, do not hesitate to ask the
Master for it and do not return the reports until you are thoroughly
satisfied.
You are required by section 226 of the Ordinances to set forth in
detail the facts ascertained respecting the applicant. and to report
your favorable or unfavorable conclusions. The report should be mailed
or delivered in person to the Master.
1. Do not disclose your assignment to anyone and warn applicant
not to do so.
2. Applicant should be interviewed in his home to observe it and
the applicant's relationships with his family and their attitude
toward his joining the lodge.
3. Applicant's wife should be interviewed separately so she can
express herself freely.
4. Information relative to applicant's financial standing and general reputation should be secured from others than the applicant,
the recommendors and references, for example, his bank. present
or past employers, neighbors, past or present associates in lodges
or clubs.
5. Applicant, recommendors and references should be interviewed
as soon as possible to allow time to check leads and other sources.
6. Ask applicant for additional references.
7. If applicant's age. health or financial standing indicates the
possibility of his becoming a charge on the lodge. or that he is
trying to become eligible for admission to · the Decoto Home,
check carefully and report on your questionnaire.
The questions on the back of this notice, to he asked the applicant,
are intended to aid you in making up your report. Insert his answers
where indicated. Fill in the answers to your questionnaire when you
have finished your investigation. Please remember that under our law,
only the Master knows of your appointment and that no record connects you with this application or with the report you shall make, which
will be destroyed by the Master immediately after the ballot has been
had.
Applicant states that he was born .......................... at ..........................
.......................... that his occupations for the last ten years have .been
From
To
Occupation
Employer
Where

..........................................................................................................................................................

.................................................................................................................................

_.............

and his residences for the past ten years have been as follows:

From

To

197

Residence (Street & No.}

~---·········································-······-·····························-····

...........................______ _

;.:;~·h~-i~--~~;-~~·-;~~-i~t·~-~~~~--~£-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~-N~:·.~~~--~·.·.~~--in the jurisdiction of ···································-···-··: that he was rejected by
....................:....................... Lodge No............. Location............................
Date ............................ and ............................ Lodge No............. Location
................................ Date ................................ and states further that he
is prompted to solicit the privileges of Masonry because of a sincere
wish to be serviceable to his fell ow creatures.
The applicant was recommended hy:
Business Address .................................................. Telephone ................
Residence Address ................................................ Telephone ................
And ·····················································································-·················-··...
Business Address .................................................. Telephone ................
Residence Address ................................................ Telephone ................
And he refers to: ·······························································-··-············~········
Busiiiess Address .................................................. Telephone ................
Residence Address ................................................ Telephone ................
And to: ...........................................................................................~..............
Business Address .................................................. Telephone ................
Residence Address ................................................ Telephone ................
Address ....................................................
.................................................. Phone ......................................................
Master
SUGGESTIONS RE QUESTIONS TO BE GIVEN INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
TO BE ANSWERED BY APPLICANT

1. Have you ever been arrested for a crime other than traffic viola~
tions?
2. If so, where, when and what for? ·
3. Are you married? Living with wife?
4. Does your wife approve of your application?
5. Have you ever been divorced? Where? When?
6. What are your reasons for applying for membership in Masonry?
7. Have you ever served in armed forces? If so, did you receive an
honorable discharge?
8. Are you or have you ever been a member of any fraternal or social
lodge or club? If so, state where and when. If not now a member
why not?
.'
9. Have you ever been known by any other name than the one given
in your application?
10. Do you know of anyone who might object to your joining Masonry?
11. Do you own your own home or rent it?

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

What is the extent of your financial obligations?
Does your income adequately provide for your obligations?
How much life insurance do you carry?
State fully your acquaintanceship with the men named in your
application as recommendors and references.
16. Do you expect to attend Lodge regularly?
17. How is your health?
18. Describe thoroughly any physical deformity or defect and any
serious disease you have or have had.
19. Who do you know in our lodge?
20. What other Masons do you know?
21. Are you a registered voter?
22. If required, would you he willing to he fingerprinted and have your
fingerprints checked?
Ask the applicant any other questions you desire to ask.

The adoption of this form would not increase the work of Masters
or Secretarys of lodges.
This has been a rather long and detailed report but your committee
felt that the importance of the problems to our fraternity and the great
interest shown by the lodges in their solution merited a full report and
discussion of the recommendations of the majority of the craft who
worked so diligently as was shown by their reports.
The recommendations of this report are your recommendations to
our Most Worshipful Grand Master and your committee recommends
the adoption of the recommendations reported herein. Full and complete investigation of applicants is the only way to maintain the standards of Freemasonry and keep our fraternity from being damaged or
destroyed by those who do not belong in Freemasonry and by those
who would join us to destroy us.

12.
13.
14.
15.

LEO E. ANDERSON

QUESTIONNAIRE TO BE FILLED IN BY MEMBER OF INVESTIGATING

RALPH PIERSON

COMMITIEE

DoN CAMPBELL

1. Have you personally interyiewed applicant?
2. Do you believe him to be of sufficient mental capacity to understand
and appreciate the lessons of Masonry?
3. Is he a clean, right-living man, sober and industrious?
4. Has he any habits which tend to degrade his morals?
5. Does he pay his debts promptly?
6. Is he married or single? What family has he? Did you meet him
in his home and talk with his family?
7. Is his wife or family -in sympathy with his joining our Institution?
(This is quite important).
8. Does he live with and support his family as a husband should?
9. Has he provided for his family in case of death?
10. Is he likely to become a charge upon the Lodge or to apply for
admission to the Home of Decato?
11. What appear to be his motives for making application?
12. Did you check his previous residences?
13. Did you check his former employers or business connections?
14. Did you check his recommendors?
15. Did you check his references?
16. If applicant has been divorced, have you investigated circumstances? (Any lawyer can tell you how to do so).
17. Have you any further comments?
After thorough investigation of all available sources of information,
I am ···--------- satisfied as to the character and zeal of the applicant and
I do ·-··-----··· recommend that the application be granted.
Investigator

199

HOWARD B. MELENDY

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the
Committee on Jurisprudence.

200

201

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS

Valle de France Lodge No. 329, to $100.00; Fruitvale Lodge No. 336,
to $125.00; Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361, to $75.00; Rockridge Lodge No.
468, to $125.00; Victory Lodge No. 474, to $100.00; Ionic Lodge No.
520, to $125.00; Elmhurst Lodge No. 610, to $100.00; La Brea Lodge
No. 650, to $100.00.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-laws has carefully considered the two hundred ninetrsix amendments to by-laws submitted by constituent Lodges.
At the October, 1948 Communication of Grand Lodge, the minimum
annual dues were fixed at $12.00. During the last year, two hundred
thirty-two Lodges amended their by-laws to conform thereto. The
Grand Secretary's office furnished to the Lodges a mimeographed form
to cover the necessary amendment. This procedure has been a great
help to the Lodges in amending their by-laws and has greatly aided
the work of our Committee in examining each of these amendments.
We found all to be in proper form and correctly completed. A duplicate
copy was returned to the Lodge as some Lodge records and files failed
to disclose previous by-law amendments, although such action had been
taken.

Decreasing fees: Kaweah Lodge No. 665, to $50.00.

•

Fifteen Lodges increased their fees, one Lodge decreased the fee
charged, and one Lodge adjusted its fees. Five Lodges took action affecting their affiliation fee. Thirteen Lodges amended their by-laws changing
date of stated meeting, one changing time of stated meeting, and two
took action providing for stated meetings falling on holidays. One
Lodge changed its annual election date to tl).e stated meeting in November now provided for under Article 4, Section 180 of the Ordinances.
Fifteen Lodges took action adopting the Uniform Code of By-laws.
Our Committee recommends that when such action is necessary, the
Lodge use the form available from the Grand Secretary's office. This
procedure will eliminate many omissions and difficulties. Secretaries
should be careful to fill in all blanks of the form when the Lodge takes
such action. Five sets of by-laws could not be approved and must be
continued, with your approval, for further amendments and additional
corrections by the secretary.
We feel that Masters during the past year have given special
attention to familiarizing themselves with the by-laws of the Lodge.
We urge that this be continued, in conformity with the admonition to
the Master in the installation ceremony.
All the following amendments have been approved by the Grand
Secretary and the Grand Master, as to form and Masonic law
requirements:
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Hiram Lodge No. 43, to $75.00; Plumas Lodge No.
60, to $125.00; Pajaro Lodge No. 110, to $75.00; Sincerity Lodge No.
132, to $100.00; Mountain View Lodge No. 194, to $75.00; Olive
Branch Lodge No. 269, to $75.00; Oakdale Lodge No. 275, to $75.00;

~. '

Increasing affiliation.. fee: Hiram Lodge No. 43, to $10.00; Fruitvale
Lodge No. 336, to $25.00; Rockridge Lodg~ No. 468, to $10.00; Elmhurst Lodge No. 610, to $10.00 .
Fixing of affiliation fee: Sincerity Lodge No. 132, to $5.00.
Increasing dues: Western Star Lodge No. 2, to $12.00; Tehama
Lodge No. 3, to $12.00; Corinthian Lodge No. 9, to $12.00; San Jose
Lodge No. 10, to $12.00; Nevada Lodge No. 13, to $12.00; Eureka
Lodge No. 16, to $12.00; Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18, to $12.00;
Washington Lodge No. 20, to $12.00; Madison Lodge No. 23, to $12.00:
Mariposa Lodge No. 24, to $12.00; Georgetown Lodge No. 25, to $12.00;
El Dorado Lodge No. 26, to $12.00; Trinity Lodge No. 27, to $12.00;
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32, to $12.00; Ophir Lodge No. 33, to $12.00;
Howard Lodge No. 37, to $12.00; Sacramento Lodge No. 40, to $12.00;
Hiram Lodge No. 43, to $12.00; Crescent Lodge No. 45, to $12.00;
Forbestown Lodge No. 50, to $12.00: lllinoistown Lodge No. 51, to
$12.00; Volcano Lodge No. 56, to $12.00; Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57,
to $12.00; Union Lodge No. 58, to $12.00; Natoma Lodge No. 64,
to $12.00; Amador Lodge No. 65, to $12.00: Forest Lodge No. 66,
to $12.00; Calaveras Lodge No. 78, to $12.00; lone Lodge No. 80,
to $12.00; Yolo Lodge No. 81, to $12.00; Naval Lodge No. 8 7, to
$12.00; Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89, to $12.00; North Star Lodge No.
91, to $12.00; St. Helena Lodge No. 93, to $15.00; Henry Clay
Lodge No. 95, to $12.00; Hornitos Lodge No. 98, to $12.00; Clay
Lodge No. 101, to $12.00; Arcata Lodge No. 106, to $12.00; Summit
Lodge No. 112, to $12.00; Concord Lodge No. 117, to $12.00; LaFayette
Lodge No. 126, to $12.00: Nicolaus Lodge No. 129, to $12.00; Woodbridge Lodge No. 131, to $12.00; Sincerity Lodge No. 132, to $12.00;
Valley Lodge No. 135, to $12.00; Curtis Lodge No. 140, to $12.00;
Grafton Lodge No. 141, to $12.00; Eel River Lodge No. 147, to $12.00;
Woodland Lodge No. 156, to $12.00; Harmony Lodge No. 164, to
$12.00; Elk Grove Lodge No. 173, to $12.00; Drytown Lodge No. 174,
to $12.00: Phoenix Lodge No. 178, to $12.00; Mendocino Lodge No. 179,
to $12.00: Petaluma Lodge No. 180, to $12.00; Clear Lake Lodge No.
183, to $12.00; Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184, to $12.00; Evening Star
Lodge No. 186, to $12.00; Northern Light Lodge No. 190, to $12.00;
Ferndale Lodge No. 193, to $12.00; Mountain View Lodge No. 194,
to $12.00; San Simeon Lodge No. 196, to $12.00: Hartley Lodge No.
199, to $12.00; Truckee Lodge No. 200, to $12.00; Silverville Lodge No.

202

203

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201, to $12.00; Confidence Lodge No. 203, to $12.00; Salinas Lodge
No. 204, to $12.00; Stanislaus Lodge No. 206, to $12.00; Anaheim Lodge
No. 207, to $12.00; Friendship Lodge No. 210, to $12.00; Monterey
Lodge No. 217, to $15.00; Downey Lodge No. 220, to $12.00; Inyo
Lodge No. 221, to $12.00; Athens Lodge No. 228, to $12.00; Solano
Lodge No. 229, to $12.00; Covelo Lodge No. 231, to $12.00; Janesville
Lodge No. 232, to $12.00; Calistoga Lodge No. 233, to $12.00; Hope
Lodge No. 234, to 12.00; Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236, to 12.00; Guada~
lupe Lodge, No. 237, to 12.00; Alcatraz Lodge No. 244, to $12.00;
Fresno Lodge No. 247, to $12.00; Landmark Lodge No. 253, to $12.00;
Lodi Lodge No. 256, to $12.00; Penrhyn Lodge No. 258, to $12.00; Or~
land Lodge No. 265, to $12.00; North East Lodge No. 266, to $12.00;
Galt Lodge No. 267, to $12.00; Durant Lodge No. 268, to $12.00; Olive
Branch Lodge No. 269, to $15.00; Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271, to
$12.00; Oakdale Lodge No. 275, to $12.00; Callayomi Lodge No. 282,
to $12.00; South West Lodge No. 283, to $12.00; San Miguel Lodge
No. 285, to $12.00; East Gate Lodge No. 290, to $12.00; Traver Lodge
No. 294, to $12.00; Liberty Lodge No. 299, to $12.00; Redlands Lodge
No. 300, to $12.00; Ontario Lodge No. 301, to $12.00: Ashlar Lodge
No. 306, to $12.00; Sisson Lodge No. 310, to $12.00: Tehachapi Lodge
No. 313, to $12.00; Norwalk Lodge No. 315, to $12.00; Fallbrook
Lodge No. 317, to $12.00; Emmanuel Lodge No. 318, to $12.00; Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, to $12.00; South Gate Lodge No. 320, to $12.00;
Alisa} Lodge No. 321, to $12.00; Alhambra Lodge No. 322, to $12.00;
Whittier Lodge No. 323, to $12.00; Consuelo Lodge No. 325, to $12.00;
Long Beach Lodge No. 327, to $12.00; Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331,
to $12.00: Alta Lodge No. 333, to $12.00; Covina Lodge No. 334,
to $12.00; Carquinez Lodge No. 337, to $12.00; San Jacinto Lodge
No. 338, to $12.00: San Fernando Lodge No. 343, to $12.00: Palo
Alto Lodge No. 346, to $12.00: McKinley Lodge No. 347, to $12.00:
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348, to $12.00; Buena Park Lodge No.
357, to $12.00; Loyalton Lodge No. 359, to $12.00; Fort Bragg
Lodge No. 361, to $12.00; Charity Lodge No. 362, to $12.00; Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, to $12.00; Gardena Lodge No. 372, to $12.00:
Artesia Lodge No. 377, to $12.00; Oceanside Lodge No. 381, to $12.00;
Dinuba Lodge No. 385, to $12.00; Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, to
$12.00; East Belt Lodge No. 391, to $12.00; West Lake Lodge No. 392,
to $12.00; Fraternity Lodge No. 399, to $12.00; Perris Lodge No. 411,
to $12.00; Arlington Lodge No. 414, to $12.00; Clovis Lodge No. 417, to
$12.00; Elysian Lodge No. 418, to $12.00; Uplands Lodge No. 419, to
$12.00; Kerman Lodge No. 420, to $12.00; York Lodge No. 423, to
$12.00; Exeter Lodge No. 424, to $12.00; Chino Valley Lodge No. 427,
to $12.00; McCloud Lodge No. 430, to $12.00; Alpha Lodge No. 431, to
$12.00; Hammonton Lodge No. 433, to $12.00; Maricopa Lodge No.

434, to $12.00; Claremont Lodge No. 436, to $12.00; Coronado Lodge
No. 441, to $12.00; Blackmer Lodge No. 442, to $12.00; La Puente Lodge
No. 446, to $12.00; Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, to $12.00; Morgan Hill
Lodge No. 463, to $12.00; Alta Vista Lodge No. 464, to $15.00; Center
Lodge No. 465, to $12.00; Rockridge Lodge No. 468, to $15.00; Blythe
Lodge No. 473, to $12.00; Golden Rule Lodge No. 479, to $12.00;
Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482, to $15.00; Vallejo Lodge No. 487,
to $12.00; Capital City Lodge No. 499, to $12.00; Westwood Lodge
No. 501, to $12.00; Harbor Lodge No. 502, to $12.00; Point Lodge No.
503, to $12.00; Seaside Lodge No. 504, to $12.00; Mount Olive Lodge
No. 506, to $12.00; El Segundo Lodge No. 507, to $12.00; Joppa Lodge
No. 508, to $12.00; Cupertino Lodge No. 510, to $12.00; Sunnyvale
Lodge No. 511, to $12.00; Vermont Square Lodge No. 515, to $12.00;
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517, to $15.00; Ionic Lodge No. 520, to
$15.00; Sunrise Lodge No. 522, to $12.00; Bellflower Lodge No. 523, to
$12.00; Catalina Island Lodge No. 524, to $15.00; Covenant Lodge No.
527, to $12.00: Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, to $12.00: Smyrna Lodge
No. 532, to 12.00: Utopia Lodge No. 537, to $12.00: Queen Beach
Lodge No. 540, to $12.00: Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541, to
$12.00: Lankershim Lodge No. 542, to $12.00; Justice Lodge No. 549,
to $15.00; White Pine Lodge No. 555, to $12.00; Craftsmen No. 559,
to $12.00; East San Diego Lodge No. 561, to $12.00; South Park Lodge
No. 563, to $12.00; Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571, to $12.00; S. W.
Hackett Lodge No. 574, to $12.00; Progressive Lodge No. 578, to
$12.00; Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, to $12.00; Rialto Lodge
No. 582, to $12.00; All States Lodge No. 593, to $12.00; Service Lodge
No. 594, to $12.00; Grizzly Lodge No. 601, to $12.00: Glassell Park
Lodge No. 605, to $12.00; Granada Lodge No. 608, to $12.00; Provident
Lodge No. 609, to $12.00; Canoga Lodge No. 611, to $12.00; Three Pil~
lars Lodge No. 613, to $12.00; Hemet Lodge No. 615, to $12.00; R. E.
Dolley Lodge No. 616, to $12.00: Neptune Lodge No. 619, to $12.00;
The Gardens Lodge No. 621, to $12.00: Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625,
to $12.00: Chula Vista Lodge No. 626, to $12.00: Truth Lodge No. 628,
to $15.00; Benevolence Lodge No. 631, to $15.00: Normal Heights
Lodge No. 632, to $12.00: Victorville Lodge No. 634, to $12.00: Damascus Lodge No. 648, to $12.00: Florence Lodge No. 649, to $12.00:
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652, to $12.00: Fontana Lodge No. 653, to
$12.00; Jordan Lodge No. 654, to $12.00; Malta Lodge No. 661, to
$12.00; Reseda Lodge No. 666, to $12.00; John P. Jarman Lodge No.
669, to $12.00; Greenleaf Lodge No. 670, to $12.00; San Clemente
Lodge No. 671, to $12.00; Willow Glen LOdge No. 676, to $12.00;
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679, to $12.00; Carmel Lodge No. 680, to
$12.00: Barstow Lodge No. 682, to $12.00: Redwood Empire Lodge No.
683, to $12.00: Trona Lodge No. 684, to $12.00; Oildale Lodge No. 688,

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to $15.00; Pohona Lodge No. 689, to $12.00; Travelers Lodge No. 692,
to $12.00: Palm Springs Lodge No. 693, to $15.00; Ponderosa U.D., to
$12.00.
Changing date of stated meetings: Hawaiian Lodge No. il: George~
town Lodge No. 25: Hiram Lodge No. 43; Gualalupe Lodge No. 237:
Hanford Lodge No. 279; Lodge le Progres No. 371: Honolulu Lodge
No. 409: Lincoln Lodge No. 470: America Lodge No. 475: Clarence
F. Smith Lodge No. 482: Euclid Lodge No. 519; Fairview Lodge No.
629; Trona Lodge No. 684.
Changing time of stated meetings: William D. Stephens Lodge No.
698.
Providing for holiday meetings: America Lodge No. 475: Kaweah
Lodge No. 665.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Gold Hill Lodge No. 32: Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235; Whittier Lodge No. 323: Valley Forge
Lodge No. 587; Ponderosa Lodge U.D.: Santa Ynez Valley Lodge U.D.:
Rosemead Lodge U.D.; Westchester Lodge U.D.: Orinda Lodge U.D.:
El Cerrito Lodge U.D.
Miscellaneous: Hiram Lodge No. 43: Forbestown Lodge No. 50:
Inglewood Lodge No. 421.
Our Committee has carefully examined and approved all these
By-Laws and amendments and recommend their approval by Grand
Lodge.
I now move the adoption of this report, thereby approving the
recommendations contained therein.

205

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 1OOth Annual Communication of Grand Lodge: ·
Those entitled to compensation are: the duly accredited Representatives of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters, Officers of
Grand Lodge, and the Chairman and Members of Committees enumerated in Section 68 of the Ordinances, who are actually in attendance at
Grand Lodge.
Compensation of members has been computed on the basis of twice
the one-way first class railway fare, plus Pullman sleeper, where necessary. As has been the custom for many years, no compensation is
allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or
where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1 .00.
We have computed the transportation rates from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the payroll
with the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on
Credentials. The amount required to meet the transportation costs for
the 1949 Convocation is as follows : ·
Grand Lodge Officers ·-·-··-··~···-·-............. $ 726.96
Past Grand Masters ..................................
585.48
Committees ..................................................
778.08
Grand Lecturers and Inspectors................ 3,401.71
Representatives .......................................... 18,154.34
Total. ...........................................$23,M6.57
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, and the AngloCalifomia National Bank, for making the necessary arrangements so
that members may cash their checks in this building at the close of the
Grand Lodge session. Checks will be ready for distribution following
the election of the Junior Grand Warden, Friday morning. Checks not
called for will be mailed by the Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,

Respectfully submitted,
OAKLEY K. MORTON
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY
EDWARD L. KELLAS
STEWART B. ANDREWS
GORDON PORTER

R. LEROY SHADRACH
ARTHUR C. GREEN

JOHN V. BACIGALUPI
WILLIAM J . MANN
WILLIS V. McBETH
Lovo C. CAMPBELL
Loms G. SUTTON
KEITH W . ScHLAEGEL
HERBERT H. CooPER

Adopted.

•

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance .
At 4: 10 P .M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10: 00 A.M.
Wednesday.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE
WEDNESDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 12, 1949

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE
ACQUISITION OF THE BENICIA MASONIC TEMPLE

Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M., Grand Master presiding.
The Grand Chaplain gave the invocation.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday,
October 11th, were read and approved.
Report of Masonic Temple Association of California, Incorporated

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Th following is a statement of the Masonic Temple Association of
Califo~ia, Incorporated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1949:
ASSETS
$ 11,699.10
Cash _ _..:..---···--··-···---~..---·-····-·..···--···
195.00
Accounts receivable--tenants ~---··-······--·-·-·-..·-···---·--..·- - - · - 19D.432.10
Investment in stocks and bonds, at cost.-..- -....·------·----···-·--·--· 591,345.31
Property
-------,..-----···-·-....-·······---······..
793,671.51
Total Assets __......-----------·--··-·-······-···-LIABILmES AND CAPITAL
4.087.48
Liabilities _ l : . -..- - - - · · - - - : - - - - - - - - · - - - - 789.584.03
Capital __,,.:_..._.....:.......-

....·

--"---___...,..--

Total Liabilities and CapttaL ........- - -·-·-·-·············-········..-·--·INCOME

. . .-.-: __

~~~~:1sa~~:~
:::::::====::==~.:==::~~==:~~::=::::~:
Income from sab-meterl-----····-----·----··--·-··--·-----·--

....-·-·

Sundry income --4-·---·-·-·-·---···~-----·-·-··-

Total income -~·-·····-·..·········-····-·---·····----····-··-----···
EXPENSES .
Expenses--Total expenses -··-····..----·-···- - · · - : - · - - - · - · Net income for the year----··----···---..-- -·-:---···-····
Balance, October 1, 1948. - - - - ---- - - -·······-·------····-····-·········

793,671.51
61,756.50
4,997.60
5.245.05
1.214.56
76.40
73.290.11
53,290.75
19,999.36
112,812.27

Add:
Net proftt for the fdr-·······- --···..-----------·-·-·······--····-······-

19,999.36

' .-......------r---..-----....................---······----·-···---

132,811.63

Total

207

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

206

De~~dends paid -

-----············-···············-···-···········-··· $9.875.89
Purchase of 35 shares Masonic Temple Association of
HO.DO
Calif. Inc. stock . - --·-·--·- .......-·-··-..---·- _ _ _

10,015.89

Balance, September 30, 1949- -...........................----······- ...- -..···- $1 22,795.74

The Grand Master read a telegram of greeting as received from
Past Grand Master Randolph V. Whiting.

October 8, 1949
WHEREAS, at the 99th annual communication of the Grand Lodge
a resolution was introduced proposing that the incoming Grand Master
appoint a special committee to investigate the purchase by the Grand
Lodge of the old historical Masonic Temple. at Benicia, which proposal
was recommended by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
and which resolution was adopted, and
WHEREAS, this committee was duly appointed by the Most Worshipful Grand Master. Edward H. Siems, and after due consideration,
careful investigation and deliberation, do find the following:
1. The wooden, two-story building situated at the rear of the present
Lodge Hall of Benicia Lodge No. 5, in the City of Benicia, is the first
Masonic Hall erected in California for purely Masonic purposes.
2. That this said building was commenced in the summer of the
year 1850, and was dedicated on December 27th of the same year by
the Deputy Grand Master, Brother John A . Tutt, who became the
second Grand Master of this jurisdiction.
3. That the erection of this first Masonic Hall was consumated
under the immediate supervision, direction, and through the energies
of the first Worshipful Master of Benicia Lodge No. 5. Brother Benjamin D. Hyman, who, in 1853 was the third Most Worshipful Grand
Master of this jurisdiction.
4. That the "Building Committee," named by and assisting Brother
Hyam consisted of Brother Ro·b ert Semple, Brother Alexander Riddell,
and Brother Lansing B. Mizner.
5. That Brother Alexander Riddell gave and donated to the Lodge
the ground upon which it stands and the milled siding for the outside
walls of the building: that Brother Ro·b ert Semple donated all the other
lumber, bricks and hardware which went into its building: that Brother
Lansing B. Mizner subscribed monies, along with others, and generally
assisted with the details of construction.
6. Brother Alexander Riddell was one of the pioneers of this State,
one of the first settlers of Benicia, an outstanding citizen and business·
man of his time, the third Worshipful Master of Benicia Lodge No. 5,
and well known for his M asonic works.
Brother Lansing B. Mizner was the second Worshipful Master of
Benicia Lodge No. 5: served his County. State and the nation in inter·
national affairs for over 40 years. He was a member of the Legislature ( 1865-1868): the 17th President pro tem of the Senate: the private
secretary to the Honorable Govern01; J3i9ler, himself a Mason, and

209

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

finally as United States Minister to Guatamala and other Central
American countries.
Brother Robert Semple came to California in 1845. He founded
the first newspaper published here, in Monterey, called "The Californian." He was a member of the well known "Bear Flag Party," at
Sonoma, which wrested California from Mexico and set it up as an
· independent republic. He founded the town of Benicia and a few years
later, the town of Colusa, in Colusa County. He was a member of the
Constitutional Convention which drafted the first constitution for Cali#
fornia, at Monterey, in 1849, and was elected and served as the President of that body during its deliberations. It is claimed by some that
he is the father of the free public schools of California because of his
zealous and. convincing arguments on their behalf before the Constitutional Convention. He was raised in Davy Crockett Lodge, in San
Francisco (now extinct), and dimitted to Benicia Lodge in March,
1850, where he remained a member until his death in 1855.

never again be available and may fall into the hands of parties who will
remodel or raze it, which circumstance in the opinion of your committee
would be a calamity to the Masonic fraternity as well as to the State
of California.

208

In view of all these facts, this committee points out that the first
Masonic Hall in California, at Benicia, not only was the very first
Masonic building to be erected and still standing, but that it has historical associations important to the people of the State of California
as well as to the Masons of this jurisdiction.
7. The committee finds that this building was continuously used
as a Masonic Hall by Benicia Lodge No. 5, until it became insufficient
for their purposes. In 1888 a new Masonic Hall was built on the adjoining property and the old historical Benicia Temple was sold to help
finance the new building. It has remained in foreign hands until this
present time, now being owned by Solano County. It is in an excellent
state of preservation, the Co~nty having but recently made repairs, and
remains in all its essential particulars as to architecture and design as it
was, when last used as a Masonic Hall by Benicia Lodge No. 5.
B. The committee finds that the last tenants of this first Masonic
Hall in California have recently vacated the property and that the
building is shortly to be offered for sale at public auction, by bid, by the
Board of Supervisors of Solano County, which is in accord with the
requirements of the law.
9. The committee also finds that a majority of said Board of Supervisors are members of this fraternity and as such would like to see this
first Masonic Hall restored to the craft; that they estimate its value
to be approximately five thousand three hundred dollars, ( $5300.00)
and that they legally will do all in their power to assist us and to cooperate with us.
Now therefore, it comes to pass that for the first time in two decades
the first Masonic Hall in California is available for purchase and may

To prevent these things from happening and to restore to the Masons
of California this historical shrine, the original first Masonic Hall in
this state, this committee finds the following to be feasible and rec#
ommends the adoption of the same by this Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge:
1. That this Grand Lodge appropriate the sum of five thousand
dollars ( $5000.00) for the acquisition of the first Masonic Hall in
California, still standing on its original site in the City of Benicia.
2. That Benicia Lodge No. 5, under resolution-a certified and
sealed copy of which is attached hereto, will underwrite the expense
of purchasing and reconditioning said Masonic Hall in excess of the
sum of five thousand dollars ( $5000.00) to the extent of two thousand,
five hundred dollars ( $2500.00).
3. That upon securing title to the said first Masonic Hall, Benecia
Lodge No. 5 will cause said title to be vested in the name of this Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge unless otherwise directed.
4. That, by resolution, certified and sealed copies of which are here
attached, Benicia Lodge No. 5 hereby offers to act as custodians, for
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, of the building and property and
in the opinion of this committee are logically best situated so to act.
That they will turn the custodianship and management of the property
over to their Masonic Hall Board of Trustees who will establish a
separate bank account and books for the same, depositing all revenues
derived from rentals of the building and/or other sources, out of which
they agree to pay the cost of maintenance, insurance, taxes, repairs and
to underwrite the same should expected revenues prove deficient, all
without cost to, or for additional demands upon this Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge.
5. That to amplify revenue from use of the building, Benicia Lodge
No. 5 agrees to rent the lower floor from the Trustees for their own
recreational purposes for the sum of twenty dollars ( $20.00) for each
calendar month.
6. That the Trustees will cause the Lodge room in this first Masonic
Hall 'to be made available to all Lodges throughout this jurisdiction
for the purpose of conferring any of the three degrees and that for the
purpose of maintaining this Masonic shrine, and no other, that the
Trustees should have the right to establish fees for the use of the same
by said Lodges.

210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

7. That upon securing title to said first Masonic Hall, Benicia Lodge
No. 5 agrees, in co-operation with the Masonic History Committee of
this Grand Lodge, to take steps to carefully, and as faithfully to detail
as possible, to restore and renovate said building so it will appear as it
did in said details when last owned by them: that in so doing they will
restore to said first Masonic Hall all the original furniture, such as
chairs, desks, altar, pedestals, altar candelabra, etc., still in their possession: that they will in fact be re-establishing this first Masonic Hall
as an historical Masonic monument and shrine and will, in the opinion
of this committee, creditably and ably discharge the duties which would
devolve upon them by virtue of the adoption of this report.

BENICIA LoDGE No. 5, F. & A. M.
Benicia Calif., October 5, 1949
On motion made by J. M. Barkley, PM, seconded by L. X. Car'roll, PM., the following resolution was passed unanimously at the
Stated Meeting of Benicia Lodge No. 5, F. & A. M., Benicia, California,
October 5, 1949.
"Resolved, that, if the Old Masonic Building is acquired, in addition ·t o appropriating $2500.00 to underwrite the initial expense of
acquiring and rehabilitating the Old Masonic Temple of Benicia,
Benicia Lodge No. 5 will assume all necessary expenses of maintenance and upkeep, including taxes and insurance, etc., in return for
the (privilege of using the building, furthermore, that Benicia Lodge
No. 5 will appoint a standing committee to act as custodians of the
Old Temple."
The above is a true and exact copy.
GEORGE T. GARVIN, Master

Finally, in conclusion, this committee is of the opinion that should
this first Masonic Hall in California be restored to the Fraternity by
action of this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, that such action will
parallel similar action in eastern States where the craft has restored,
maintained and preserved their historical monuments for the good of
Masonry and the enjoyment of future generations.
Oct. 8, 1949.
Respectfully submitted,
CHESTER w. ARNOLD
DWIGHT E. Wooo
}AMES M. BARCLAY
0. J. WoHLGEMUTH
LAWRENCE X. CARROLL, Chairman
BENICIA LoDGE No. 5, F. & A. M.
Benicia, Calif., October 5, 1949
On motion made by C. H. Byerrum, PM. seconded by L. X.
Carroll, PM, the following resolution was passed unanimously at the
Stated Meeting of Benicia Lodge No. 5, F. & A. M., Benicia, California, September 7, 1949.
"Resolved, that the Grand Lodge of California be requested to
appropriate the sum of $5000.00 for the purpose of acquiring and rehabilitating the Old Masonic Temple at Benicia and that Benicia Lodge
No. 5, underwrite the expense of acquiring and rehabilitating the Old
Temple up to the amount of $2500.00."
The above is a true and exact copy.
GEORGE T. GARVIN, Master
Attest: L. X. CARROLL. Sect., Pro Tem

211

Attest: L. X. CARROLL. Sect., Pro Tem

To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
Whereas, at the 99th annual communication of Grand Lodge,
Lawrence X. Carroll, Master of Benicia Lodge No. 5, presented a
resolution proposing that the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee to investigate the purchase by Grand Lodge of the Old Masonic
Temple at Benicia, which proposal was recommended by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the resolution adopted, and
Whereas, this was the first building to be officially dedicated as a
Masonic Temple in the State of California, it having been completed
by Benicia Lodge No. 5 in October 1850 and dedicated by Grand
Lodge December 27, 1850, and
Whereas, the Temple is now owned by the County of Solano and
is now, for the first time in more than 2 decades, available for purchase,
and may never again be available and may fall into the hands of parties
who will remodel or raze it, and
Whereas, Benicia No. 5, whose present temple property joins the
old Masonic Temple, in consideration for the privilege of using the
ground floor of the old Temple as a clubroom will restore thereto all
the original furniture, etc., they still possess and will act as hosts to
Lodges desiring to visit this first Masonic Temple and will underwrite
Grand Lodge's expense of purchasing and reconditioning the old Temple up to the amount of $2500.00, and will assist the History Committee

212

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

in maintaining the old Temple by acting as custodians of the Old Temple
and by keeping it in repair.
Now, therefore, be it resolved that this Grand Lodge appropriate
the sum of Five Thousand Dollars ( $5,000.00) for the purpose of
purchasing and reconditioning the Old Masonic Temple at Benicia.
October 6, 1949
Walter L..Berger. Chairman
Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing
640 South Spring St.
Los Angeles 14, California
Dear Walter:
Brother Carroll telephoned me this morning advising that he was
meeting with yourselves and Brother Whitsell relative to the purchase
by Benicia Lodge of the old, original Benicia Lodge temple, which adjoins their present temple site.
On September 5th, I met with the committee at Benicia to listen tci
their problem as well as to investigate their financial standing, in the
event of their presenting a request to our committee.
The old temple, which was the first building erected in California
to be used solely for Masonic purposes, was built in 1850. It is a twostory frame. of timber believed to have been brought around The Horn.
In 1890 Benicia Lodge erected its present two-story brick temple on
the Southwest corner of First and "J ." Due to financial difficulties
encountered, it was necessary that they sold the old temple, and at the
present time the old temple is owned by Solano County.
·
At the present time Benicia Lodge has 216 members. I am covering
on a separate sheet their financial standing.
It would be my recommendation that Benicia Lodge be granted
the consent to purchase the property in question for a sum not to exceed
$2.500.00, providing that they can present a future program indicating ·
the manner in which they plan to rehabilitate the old temple. If the
presented plan will provide for the use of the old temple as a clubroom,
it would release a store in the brick temple which should bring in an
annual income of approximately $1.000.00. This additional revenue
would then be available to pay taxes and insurance on the old temple.
F ratemally,
BERT

213

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
FINANCIAL STATEMENT -

AUGUST 1949

BENICIA LoDGE No. 5, F. & A. M.
U. S. Bonds. F _..~~··············-~·-·········-············--·$ 740.00
U . S. Bonds, G ...................................................... 4,000.00
Cash, savings bank account ................................
747.72
Cash, comml. bank account ................................ 2.256.51
7,744.23

$ 7,744.23

Land, s/W corner 1st and J, 125x62.5 ................
Two-story brick bldg .•bit. 1890, replacement est. 10,000.00
Depreciation.................... 6,000.00

12,500.00

4,000.00

4,000.00
5,000.00

Lodge furn., fixtures and paraphernalia..............

$65,244.23
INCOME
Rentals. ground floor, undertaker, annual.. ..........
Furniture ..................................................
( Corner ) clubroom ..................................
Lodge floor, O.E.S........................... ,.......
Rainbow ....................................................

480.00
780.00
240.00
30.00

R. A. M . ....................................................
1,530.00

1,530.00

450.00
Lodge - average 6 candidates @ $75.00............
216 members @ $12.00............................ 2.592.00
Interest ......................................................
110.00
3,152.00

3,152.00
4,682.00

EXPENSES
Taxes
Insurance ..............................................................
Janitor ....................................................................
Utilities ..................................................................
Misc. ......................................................................
Grand Lodge dues, 216 x $1.85............................
Salaries, tiler and secy.........................................

390.00
280.00
400.00
200.00
410.00
299.60
242.00

214

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Care of cemetery ···· ········ · ·· · · ···· ·~· ··· ·· ······· ·············
Misc. ..................................................................... .

100.00
425.00

20% retirement fund ............................................

2,746.60
520.00
3,266.60

1949 net estimated income........................

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

3,266.60
$ 1, 415. 40

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the
Committee on Finance.
The Grand Master expressed his appreciation to each of the members who had been appointed on the Special Committees for Grand
Lodge Ritual, Application Forms, Trial Procedures, and Segregation
and discharged the Committees.
The Deputy Grand Master, Ellsworth Meyer, gave a detailed account of the procedure followed in preparing the Freedom Train film.
after which the film was projected for the benefit of the members of
Grand Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Credentials makes the report that of 594 lodges,
571 are represented, also all of the seven lodges under dispensation:
total registration 1,797.
Respectfully submitted.

Louis SUTTER
ARTHUR B. LEDBETTER
EGGERT ROHWER
CARROLL A. TREPTS
WILBUR D. CROSBY
FRANK M. JENKINS
PAUL
BOREN

s.

Adopted.

215

,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Grand Master, during the past twelve months, has granted
dispensations and instituted the following Lodges:
Santa Ynez Valley Lodge at Los Olivos in Santa Barbara County
Rosemead Lodge at Rosemead in Los Angeles County
Westchester Lodge at Los Angeles in Los Angeles County
Orinda Lodge at Orinda in Contra Costa County
El Cerrito Lodge at El Cerrito in Contra Costa County
Bixby Knolls Lodge at Long Beach and Ponderosa Lodge at Fresno
were instituted prior to the last Grand Lodge communication.
The seven Lodges, under dispensation, have submitted their records
as required by law and they have been found in order.
BIXBY KNOLLS LODGE

Bixby Knolls Lodge was instituted July 31st, 1948 and at the last
Grand Lodge communication was continued under dispensation. The
ardor and enthusiasm so evident last year has continued to flourish.
Their ability to work together in peace and harmony has been
amply demonstrated by the work they have done. This Lodge has
conferred 121 degrees since their institution and now has a membership of 79, no indebtedness and a net cash balance of approximately
$1.900.00. We would like particularly to commend this Lodge for its
monthly bulletin. Those who read it cannot help but be better informed
Masons. Bixby Knolls Lodge has the wholehearted support of the
Lodges in the Long Beach area. This Committee, therefore, recommends
that a Charter be granted to Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699 at Long
Beach in the County of Los Angeles.
PONDEROSA LODGE

Ponderosa Lodge at Fresno was instituted August 5th, 1948. This
Lodge, having been formed in a unique manner, comment in this report
is appropriate.
The Masters of the four Fresno Lodges, under the direction of the
Inspector of the District, appointed Committees to select four members
from their respective Lodges to become Charter members of the new
Lodge. This group of sixteen then selected nine Master Masons, resi~
dents of Fresno but holding membership elsewhere, 'being careful to
select those they thought most likely to see a new Lodge through the
first trying years.
The twenty-five thus selected have been working together for
over a year-ample time to demonstrate the success of this unusual
method of organization. To help keep their new Master Masons inter-

216

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ested and active, they have formed what they call their "Side Liners
Degree Team" which is now ready to confer degrees when called upon
by the Master. Although _the Lodge has conferred a total of 85 degrees
and raised 19 Master Masons, the rejections evidence the fact that
their investigating Committees are functioning. The records show they
have no indebtedness and a cash balance of over $3,000.00.
Needless to say, the other Lodges in Fresno are proud of this
baby Lodge. This Committee, therefore, recommends that a Charter
be granted to Ponderosa Lodge No. 700 at Fresno in Fresno County.
SANTA YNEZ VALLEY LODGE

Santa Ynez Valley Lodge is located at Los Olivos, in Santa Ynez
Valley of Northern Santa Barbara County. The area served by Santa
Ynez Valley Lodge is rich in agriculture and is continuing to develop
on a sound and stable basis.
The need for a Masonic Lodge in the Valley has long been recognized by resident Masons. The area has a considerable Masonic
population and no Lodges within thirty miles of the three principal
towns of Solvang, Los Olivos and Santa Ynez.
A group of Masons believing much good would result, both to
Masonry and the community, in the establishment of a Masonic Lodge
in the Valley went to work. Their efforts were recognized and rewarded by the granting of a dispensation to form the Lodge and its
institution on January 22nd, 1949. Since that date they have accepted
twelve applicants for the degrees of Masonry and five applicants for
affiliation. Their .6.nances are in good condition, they have no indebtedness and $500.00 in the treasury.
The neighboring Lodges have been most helpful and co~operative
in assisting in the formation and operation of the new Lodge. Gifts
and loans of needed equipment have been of material aid and their
steady encouragement and support have been of great value to this
new Lodge.
While this Lodge may never be large in numbers, this Committee
believes that Masonry in California will be strengthened and enriched
by the granting of a Charter. We, therefore, recommend that a Charter
be granted to Santa Ynez Valley Lodge No. 701 at Los Olivos in, the
County of Santa Barbara.
ROSEMEAD LODGE

Rosemead Lodge was instituted on January 29th, 1949. This Lodge,
located in the thriving community of Rosemead in the County of Los
Angeles, is the outgrowth of the Rosemead Masonic Club. Rosemead
Lodge, at the present time, has a membership of i 1, having accepted

217

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

nine members by affiliation and raised twelve candidates. They have
over $1,000.00 in their treasury, no indebtedness and have a sound
financial program.
Surrounding Lodges have been most generous in their support
of this new Lodge, as evidenced by their donations of Masonic equipment and their interest. aid and assistance.
The ability and enthusiasm of the officers and members to continue
the progress of the Lodge and the apparent need for a Lodge in Rosemead has impressed this Committee. We, therefore, recommend that
a Charter be granted to Rosemead Lodge No. 702 at Rosemead in the
County of Los Angeles.
Westchester Lodge at Los Angeles in Los Angeles County, Orinda
Lodge at Orinda in Contra Costa County and El Cerrito Lodge at
El Cerrito in Contra Costa County, have had such a limited period of
operation, that it is the recommendation of the Charters Committee that
the above ·L odges be continued under dispensation.
Respectfully submitted,
GLENN

c. HOLMES

WILLIAM R. HERVEY, JR.
WM. J. WILLIAMS
HAROLD A. MEYER
JAMES M. MACDONALD
WALTER A. PARKER

Each portion of the report was separately acted upon and adopted,
and the entire report was then adopted.
The Most Worshipful Walton T. Baker, Grand Master of Masons
in the Jurisdiction of Nevada, and the Most Worshipful Willis R.
Pinkerton, Grand Master of Masons in the Jurisdiction of Arizona, at
the invitation of the Grand Master, each favored the Grand Lodge
with a brief address.

218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY

"Alas for him who never sees
The stars shine through the cypress trees!
Who, hopeless. lays his dead away
Nor looks to see the breaking day
Across the mournful marbles play!
Who has not learned, in hours of faith,
The truth of flesh and sense unknown,
That life is ever Lord of Death
And love can never lose its own!"

Memorial Service
Wednesday, October 12, 1949, at 11 :00 A.M.
Anderson

1. Song, "I Waited Patiently for the Lord"
(First Performance)
Carl Hooper, Tenor; Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
2. Invocation
3. Report of Committee on Necrology

Grand Chaplain
Roy C. Bryan, Chairman

4. Song, "In My Father's House Are Many Mansions" . MacDermid
5. Benediction
6. Memorial Song, "Tape"

219

Grand Chaplain
Custance

Death, as it must to all men, has within the past twelve months come
to 240 Masters and Past Masters, members of this Grand Lodge. The
heaviest losses were sustained by Friendship Lodge No. 212 and Golde_n
State Lodge No. 358, each lost four Past Masters. Tehama Lodge No.
3, Marin Lodge No. 191, Rising Light Lodge No. 397, and San Pasqual
Lodge No. 452, lost three each, 40 lodges lost 2 each, and 140 lodges
lost one each. Of our deceased brethren 16 have been members of the
Fraternity for fifty years or more.
One of these faithful servants was John Scalmanini, Past Master of
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219, who was raised in 1883, thus serving
the Fraternity faithfully for 66 years.
The Angel of Death made his presence deeply felt on the membership of the Board of Directors of our Club Houses, calling two from
Berkeley and one from Los Angeles. In the lnspectorial Group we lost
two active Inspectors and one who rendered valuable service to the
Grand Lodge in years past. The final call came also to one who served
recently as Senior Grand Deacon.
Each of these 240 brethren has earned and merited our admiration
and approbation. The limitations of time, however, prevent our paying
to all of them individually the tribute they so richly deserve. Their
paths having crossed ours has made our pathway through life much
brighter, and through association a love established which has successfully bridged the grave. As they have crossed the invisible chasm our
love for them has not diminished, nor can it ever be severed. The poet
Whittier expressed our thoughts in his lovely verse:

ROBERT KENNETH MC GUIRE

In the flush of life Robert Kenneth McGuire, Inspector of the 88th
Masonic District, died of a heart attack in San Bernardino, California,·
April 21, 1949. He was on a business trip. The attack occurred at 2:00
A.M. in his hotel room. He dressed, went to the garage for his car, and
drove across the city to the San Bernardino Community Hospital. where
he died the following evening at 8: 15 o'clock.
Bob, as he was familiarly known, was born November 16, 1907 at
Urbana, Ohio. When he was eleven years of age the family, believing
that the West offered better opportunities than the community in which
they were living, selected Southern California as the field for their
future operations. They came to Los Angeles and after a year's residence
in that city moved to Lawndale, where Bob received his education in
the Centinela Valley schools. In 1925 Brother McGuire returned to
the city of Los Angeles and entered the employ of the Globe Mills,
serving ten years in the milling department. In 1935 he was transferred
to the sales department, where he made an outstanding record. His
honesty, ability and efficiency placed him in an enviable position with
his employers, and his kindness, consideration and willingness to help
others endeared him to his fellow workers.
Bob McGuire's Masonic career began in 1929. On August 7 of
that year he petitioned Inglewood Lodge No. 421. He was elected
September 4, entered September 18, passed October 23, and raised to
the sublime degree December 18. The following year he was appointed
to the line and in December 1935 was elected and installed Master.
His administration was one of the most successful in the long history
of that outstanding lodge. Grand Master Frank M. Smith, recognizing
Bob's love for the Fraternity, his interest in its welfare and his devotion
to its teachings, appointed him Inspector of the 88th District in 1942.
This office he filled with honor and distinction. For six years he was
Master of Ceremonies for the Anual Beefsteak Feed in Inglewood. This
is one of the largest annual Masonic gatherings in California.

220

PROCEEDINGS OP Tl~E

Brother McGuire received the Scottish Rite degrees in the Spring
class of 1943 at Los Angeles, and until his death served as a me~ber
of the personnel committee of that organization. He joined Al Mala1kah
Temple of the Shrine in 1943.
Bob McGuire is survived by his mother, Mrs. F. J. Maher of Lawndale, California, and his widow, who was Frances Alecia Vernon of
.
LeMars, Iowa, and a daughter, Barbara Jean. age 3.
The funeral services were held at Inglewood Park Cemetery Apnl
26, 1949, in Grace Chapel. and that spacious building could not accommodate the vast gathering. The large attendance testified to the love
and affection in which he was held. His passing leaves a void in our
.
hearts, but Masonry is better because he served her so well.
MILTON THOMAS PARMER

A great jurist and a devoted Mason was lost to C~lifornia ~hen
Milton Thomas Farmer died suddenly of a heart attack m the City of
Chicago, Illinois, March 1, 1949. Judge Farmer had won a case. concerned with San Joaquin River irrigation, which he had argued before
the United States Supreme Court, and was on his way home to Berkeley
when stricken.
Judge Farmer was born December 7, 1883 at Woodland, California,
being the third child in a family of ten. His parents w.ere !3eo.rge
Thomas and Gertrude Ruggles Farmer. Shortly after Milton s birth
the family moved to Siskiyou County, but the rigorous winters of the
north section caused them to seek a more equitable climate, and they
established a ranch home in Kings County near Hanford.
Milton graduated from Hanford High School with high honors.
He attended San Jose Teachers' College for the full course and obtained a teacher's certificate. After teaching two years in Kings County
grade schools he matriculated at the University of California in January
1906 and graduated in 1909, having accomplished the requirements for
his B.A. degree in three and one-half years in spite of the fact that he
earned his way through school by working as an engraver in the old
"Co-op" and by teaching night school in San Francisco. He obtained
the degree of Doctor of Jurisprudence in 1911.
There was never an idle moment during his college days. He was a
football letter man, played on the Freshman and Varsity teams. He was
elected Graduate Manager during his graduate years, and served his
Alma Mater as Alumni Secretary during this period. His scholastic
attainments and his popularity gained him many honors, as he was a
member of the Abracadabra Fraternity, Winged Helmet, Golden Bear.
Big C Society, and the Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity. He was also
elected to the coveted Phi Beta Kappa.
In 1912 Brother Farmer was appointed Assistant Attorney for the
State Banking Department. and in 1913 was appointed by Governor

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

221

Hiram Johnson to the Superior Court bench of Kern County, becoming
the youngest judge of that rank in the State. Some years later he
resigned from the bench and entered the private practice of law. He was
nationally recognized as an authority on water rights, and his record,
a most remarkable one, was due not only to his technical skill but also
to the high ideals of justice which forbade him to accept cases which in
his judgment were undeserving of his effort.
Milton Farmer was an avid reader, an exceptional student of history.
and indulged his taste as a bibliophile with an extensive collection of
books. especially those on California history and those on the life and
times of Abraham Lincoln. Although a practising Christian of high
ideals he did not join any church until late in life, but upon affiliating
with the Episcopal Church he took much interest in the extension of
Christian influence. He was a vestryman of St. Clements' Church at
the time of his death.
Our Brother is survived by his widow, Helen Young Farmer, a
leader in the Berkeley Red Cross. Two daughters, Mrs. H. Stuart
Kimball of Orinda, California, and Miss Anne Farmer of Berkeley.
and three sons. William F. Farmer of Oakland, John Farmer of Berkeley. and the Reverand James P. Farmer of Alexandria, Virginia.
Brother Farmer's Masonic career began in his 23rd year, when he
petitioned Hanford Lodge No. 279. He was initiated December 29,
1906, passed February 16, 1907, and raised to the sublime degree
February 23 that same year. He remained a member of Hanford Lodge
for 6 years and then dimitted to Durant Lodge No. 268 at Berkeley
where he retained his membership for 2 years. :Upon his appointment
to the bench of the Kem County Superior Court he transferred his
membership from Durant Lodge to Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, where
he was appointed an officer and progressed to the position of Senior
Warden. Returning to the Bay area he affiliated with Rockridge Lodge
No. 468 of Oakland and served as Master of that Lodge in 1921. He
had other Masonic affiliations being a member of Kem Valley Chapter
No. 75 Royal Arch Masons, and of Berkeley Commandry No. 42,
Knights Templar. He was also a 14 degree member of the Oakland
Bodies of the Scottish Rite.
Judge Farmer's greatest contribution to Masonry was rendered as
a member of the Board of Directors of the Masonic Club House at
the University of California at Berkeley. This was an enterprise that
was dear to his heart, and from its inception in 1923 he gave un..
stintingly of his time, his talents and his substance. At various times
he occupied the responsible position of Secretary, Chairman of the
Executive Committee and President. Much of the success of the Club
House was due to his efforts.
We will miss his counsel and his advice, but the organization to
which he gave so much will remain his perpetual monument.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

222

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
JOHN MATTHEW PLUMMER

Hundreds of people who knew him as a friend and as a Mason
were shocked and grieved at the untimely passing of John M. Plummer.
Stricken suddenly at 5 AM of May 7, 1949, at his home in Glendale
he died before any assistance could be rendered. He is survived by
his wife, Betty Plummer, and a son, Lt. Earle Plummer.
John Plummer was born in Bedford, Indiana, Jun~ 25, 1.899. ~e
came to Glendale, California in 1926 and soon established himself in
civic and fraternal affairs, and through the years carved for himself
a niche which earned for him the love and respect of the best people
of his community.
To his intimate friends and Masonic associates he was affectionately known as Johnny, but he was addressed as Captain Plummer ~y
the public. The title was derived from his position on the Glendale Fire
Department, which service he entered on July 26, 1927. He was advanced to the rating of engineer December 4, 1940, and to that of
Captain June 20, 1948. In addition to his official duties .in the, Dep~t­
ment Captain Plummer also active in the Glendale Fireman s Relief
Association, holding the office of President for one term, and was
also named as official Chaplain of the Department.
On April 18, 1930 John Plummer was raised a Master Mason
in Meridian Lodge No. 667, and for the balance of his life was a
devoted, sincere and diligent worker in the craft. His willingness to
serve and his desire to learn so impressed his brethren that he was
appointed an officer in 1938, and presided as Master in 1945. Grand
Master John R. Moore recognizing his capabilities appointed him
Senior Grand Deacon of the Grand Lodge of California and he filled
that important office with honor for the year 1947.
Johnny Plummer was active in other branches of Masonry. and
its associated orders, having served as a member of the Advisory
Board of the Order of DeMolay, and as Patron of Glen Eyrie Chapter
Order of Eastern Star. He was a member of Unity Chapter Royal
Arch Masons and Past Commander of Glendale Commandery No.
53. He was also a member of Al Malaikah Temple of the Mystic
Shrine.
Johnny's call to "that undiscovered country" brings his active
service to Masonry to an end, but the solid worth of his devotion
and character continue to flow on into time.

f"'

BENJAMIN GREEN WRIGHT

May 19, 1949 Benjamin Green Wright died after a brief illness at
the Hollywood Presbyterian Hospital. Hollywood, California.
The fourth child in a family of five, Ben, as he was affectionately

~

223

known to his intimate friends, was born on a farm near Moline, Rock
Island County, Illinois, January 9, 1879, the son of John Calhoun
Wright and Elizabeth May Scott Wright. About 1884 the family
moved to Moline, Illinois, and Ben received his grammer school
education in that city. 1893 found the family in Chicago, where Ben
attended Hyde Park High School. Coming to California in 1894 the
family settled on a farm near Ojai, where Ben worked until 1900,
when he entered upon a course of studies at the Santa Barbara Business
College, which he completed in the shortest. time and with the highest
grades in the history of that institution.
Few men have contributed more to public affairs than did Ben
Wright. Coming to Los Angeles in 1901 he immediately entered the
business, civil and religious life of the city. For the succeeding 48 years
he was most active in promoting the welfare and happiness of the
people in the community in which he lived. In the public interest he
served on many committees of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce,
Chairman Citizen's Committee Los Angeles Police Show from 1938
to the time of his death. He was instrumental in raising the funds for
the present building of the Goodwill Industries, and was Chairman of
the Board of Directors for many years. He served as Chairman Board
of Directors Los Angeles Downtown Y.M.C.A. for a long period.
President Board of Directors McKinley Home for Boys for the last
eleven years of his life. Honesty in business was an obsession with
him, and for 14 years he served the Better Business Bureau as
Director, Vice President, President and Chairman Executive Committee.
He was for many years a factor in the success of the Community
Chest activities.
Most of Brother Wright's adult life was spent in the employ of the
Southern California Telephone Company, where he held positions
of great trust and responsibility. As evidence of the esteem in which
he was held by his co-workers we quote from a tribute paid him by his
friends in the Company:
"In Memoriam-Benjamin Green Wright.
"In the early part of 1901, a big, tall, strapping young man went into
the local office of the Sunset Telephone and Telegraph Company in
Los Angeles and applied for the position of bookkeeper. The man to
whom he. applied for the job was the same sort of build and he remarked
that a big, strong man like him should be ashamed to come in and ask
for such a soft job, that he should be out doing a real man's work, and
that under those circumstances he had no job to offer him. So Ben
Wright then went to the Los Angeles Gas and Electric Corporation
and obtained a temporary job. In September of that same year his
tem~orary assignment was ended and he was on the loose again,
looking for a job.
·

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"As he had made up his mind that he was going to work for the
telephone company, he again came in and talked to the same man. When
asked what kind of a job he wanted he stated that he could do
anything--climb poles, work on books, or sell telephone service. His
application was immediately accepted and on September 13, 1901, he
was put on the payroll as an agent which, in today's parlance indicates
that he was a salesman.
"Four years later he was made manager of the West office, and
subsequently held many responsible jobs in the Commercial department. On March 1, 1924 he was appointed Los Angeles manager,
then on January 1, 1926 he headed up the Public Relations work of
the company as Public Relations Manager until he retired on January 31, 1944.
"All through his telephone service life Ben Wright was prominently
associated with the growth and development of not only his company
but the city of Los Angeles as well. He was one of the most admired
and respected business men in Los Angeles and was always connected
with activities which promoted the general welfare of the community.
and especially that of young people. For many years he served on the
Board of Directors of the McKinley Home for Boys. and during his
last few years he served as President of that body.
"He was a charter member of the Southern California Chapter of
the Pioneers of America, an employee body composed of members
who have served the telephone industry 21 years or more. He w~s
president for two terms, the years 1926 and 1930. He has the distinction of being the only person to serve two terms as president. This is
an indication of the popularity and the high respect in which Ben
Wright was held by his fellow workers.
"He was one of the organizers and a president of the Telephone
Masonic Club and was always active in its affairs. Needless to say,
he was held in the same repute in outside Masonic circles, and had
served his Lodge in many capacities."
His other business activities included the Los Angeles City Club,
the Los Angeles Electric Club. In both of these organizations he held
the office of President. He was also a Regent of Forest Lawn Memorial Park.
Ben Wright was a deeply religious man. He gave freely of his
time and his material possessions to the faith which he so dearly loved.
He was a prominent member of the Board of Directors of the Church
Federation of Los Angeles: rendered valuable service as Chairman of
the Board of Trustees Olivet Congregational Church until its merger
with Plymouth Congregational: Chairman Prudential Committee Messiah Congregational Church for _three years: President Congregational
Conference, and President Congregational Church Extension Society.

Brother Wright's efforts in behalf of Masonry have been exceeded
by few men in this Grand Jurisdiction. Appointed Senior Grand Deacon
by Grand Master George L. Jones in 1926, Ben gave to that exalted
position the dignity and efficiency which the office demanded. As a
member of the Pay of Members Committee and the Board of Control
his work was outstanding. At the time of his passing he was Treasurer
of the Los Angeles Board of Relief, having served that Board faithfully
for 25 consecutive years, and in addition to these duties he was Chairman of the Board in 1929. Ben was Chairman of the Committee to
raise funds for the building of the Masonic Club House at the University of California at Los Angeles. The campaign was so successful
that proportionate parts of the larger donations were returned to the
donors. He served as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Club House and upon the death of Ira Thompson became Chairman,
and filled that important office through 1945. It was his unique combination of character and talent that enabled him to satisfactorily settle
the tangled affairs of the old Masonic Club of Los Angeles.
Ben Wright was raised in Golden State Lodge No. 358, July 31,
1913: occupied the Oriental Chair in 1925, and for the balance of his
life was a devoted supporter of all his lodge's activities. In other
branches of Masonry he was a member of South Gate Chapter No. 98,
Royal Arch Masons. and Los Angeles Council No. 11 Royal and Select
Master Masons. He was a member of the Scottish Rite Bodies of Los
Angeles, having received the 32nd degree December 9, 1933.
Ben Wright loved his fellowman, he loved his God. His life was
not in vain, and we were indeed fortunate that he cast his lot with
Masonry. His equal will not be found soon.

225

EDMUND BARDWELL SKINNER

At the last communication of this Grand Lodge the Committee on
Necrology in its report quoted a poem entitled "They are in the other
Room." That afternoon Edmund Skinner stated to a member of the
Committee that Dr. Robert Freeman of Whittier, California, had written this poem especially for the funeral services of Brother Skinner's
mother. We little thought at the moment that in less than two months
the same poem would be quoted at his funeral, for Ed died suddenly
on December 13, 1948 at his home in Whittier. The services were
conducted by Greenleaf Lodge No. 670 on December 16th at Lanier's
Colonial Chapel. More than 300 were in attendance.
Brother Skinner is survived by his widow, Ruth Skinner, one daughter, Mrs. John Cutler of Lafayette, California, two grandchildren,
Catherine and John Cutler, and one sister, Winifred E. Skinner of
Pasadena.
Born at Shellburn, Massachusetts, March 21, 1888, he was brought

226

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

to California hy his parents in 1901. The family settled in the City
of Pasadena, and Ed received his education in the public schools of
that city. In 1917 he entered the employ of the Southern California
Edison Company, and served that company until the time of his death.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 152 of Pasadena received the petition of
Brother Skinner in the spring of 1925. He was initiated May 20, passed
June 21, and raised September 30. Three years later he dimitted to
become a charter member of Greenleaf Lodge which was being organized in Whittier. In 1930 he was installed Master of Greenleaf Lodge
No. 670, and served with great distinction. In recognition of his unusual
qualiJkations and his devotion to the Fraternity, Leslie E. Wood, Grand
Master, appointed him Inspector of District No. 96 on January 1. 1913.
His duties and responsibilities were discharged with such proficiency
that each succeeding Grand Master re-appointed him, and his services
were ended only by his death.
Ed was also a member of Whittier Chapter No. 91 Royal Arch
Masons, Whittier Chapter No. 111 Order of the Eastern Star and
Fezzan Grotto, Mystic Order of the Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted
Realm.
Ed Skinner was a deeply religious man, a loving husband, a good
father, an exemplary citizen. His devotion to Masonry endeared him
to his brethren, and his contributions to the Craft made him a valuable
member of this Grand Lodge. We ask God's blessing upon him.
WILLIAM BRODBECK HERMS

William Brodbeck Herms, Past Master of Henry Morse Stephens
Lodge No. 511 of Berkeley, was suddenly called from an unusually
active life on May 9, 1919 by a heart attack.
Internationally renowned as an Entomologist and Parasitologist:
Councilor of Boy Scouts of the Western States and Hawaii: holder of
an award for Distinguished Citizenship: a Veteran of World Wars I
and II: President of the California State Automobile Association: active
in church, ·L odge and clubs, he was the recipient of many honors, distinguished titles and academic degrees. Yet, no title seemed more appropriate than "Billy," by which he was so lovingly known for his
cheery friendliness and constant efforts to be of service to his fellowmen.
Born at Portsmouth, Ohio, September 22, 1876, he attended the
public schools and business college of that city, after which he worked
for four years in lumber mills and a shoe factory, then entering Baldwin
Wallace College, from which he graduated in 1902. Later, he pursued
advance studies in Western Reserve, Ohio State, and Harvard Universities where he held Fellowships and teaching positions. He joined
the University of California at Berkeley as an Assistant Professor of
Parasitology in 1908, and had recently retired as head of the Depart-

'.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

227

ment of Entomology and Parasitology after forty years of service.
During that time he became the author of several books, and had just
completed the revised text for the fourth edition of one of them on the
day before his death.
During World War I he rendered valuable service in the study and
control of tropical diseases. Although over-age the Government called
him back into service of World War II with the Tank of Colonel, and
placed him in charge -of the control of malaria and other tropical diseases in the Pacific area. Doubtless many Americans owe their lives
to his untiring, efficient work. As a soldier he was a charter member
of Berkeley Post of the American Legion.
Lack of space prevents a full listing of his activities. Those that
follow will give an idea of the many facets of his diamond-like character. Head of the School of Commerce of Baldwin Wallace College;
Member of the International Congress of Zoology: Member of the PanPacific Food Conservation Congress at Honolulu: Member of International Hygiene Exhibit at Dresden, Germany: Investigator of Cocoanut Pests of Fanning Islands: President of Berkeley Board of Education, Berkeley Community Chest, Berkeley Lions Club, Berkeley and
Contra Costa Area Council Boy Scouts of America, Berkeley Breakfast Club. He held membership in Sigma Xi, Alpha Zeta ( agricultural), Delta Omega (Public Health), Phi Sigma (Biological), Scabbard and Blade, Alpha Kappa Lambda. He was a fellow in many
scientific societies and had been decorated by the Republic of France
with the Rank of Chevalier du Merite, Agricole. He had been president of the Entomological Society of America, with more than 110
scientific papers to his credit.
He became a Master Mason on March 27, 1913 in Berkeley Lodge
No. 363, and was Senior Warden of that Lodge in 1922, when he
dimitted to become the first Master of Henry Morse Stephens Lodge
No. 511. At about the same time meetings were held in his office which
resulted in plans for the Masonic Club House at the University of
California in Berkeley. He served as a Trustee of the Club House from
the start, and was President of the Board at the time of his death. He
was among the founders of the Berkeley High Twelve Club, and served
as its President. Although busy with many activities he was active in
his lodge work, and was an outstanding exemplar of Masonic principles and Christian practices.
He is survived by a wife, Lillie C., and three sons, William M.,
Herbert P., and George W . Herms, who have the memory of a kindly
husband and father.
"Billy" Herms has gone to the Supreme Lodge above, but his spirit
blesses the places he touched, and his fine influence over the men who
knew him, and of the many Boy Scouts who passed under his kindly
care, will continue for the good of the world.

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

As we pause in our deliberations to pay this tribute to our brethren
who have taken the last sleep let us not forget that if they were with
us this day they would tell us not to mourn. They would tell us to
prepare for the inevitable, for each of us in our turn will go out into the
unknown, and we shall go alone, and from us to the living there will
come no word or sign. These words are filled with awe. To those of
little faith they are pregnant with fear. Man_is the only animal endowed
with a long ~emory and a vivid imagination. In his primitive state he
was least prepared of all the animals to defend himself. Enemies were
all about him. The birds, the beasts, and the elements. The birds could
seek safety in the air, some animals had protective coloring, others were
fleet of foot, many possessed great strength.
Man's only protection was the darkness of a cold and damp cavern,
and the use of an undeveloped brain. Fear was his constant companion.
In the passage of millenniums man developed his brain and became the
master of his environment; became supreme over the birds and the animals. While he cannot control the elements he understands the cau.ses
of natural phenomena, and can take the necessary precautions to decrease their destructive power. Notwithstanding man's progress and
development, the enormity of the problems that confront the world
today frequently causes him to forget his marvelous accomplishments
and his great spiritual advancement, and he burdens himself with the
accumulated fears of the past, and adds an unreasoned horror of the
future.
In reality. man now has only two enemies-his fellowman and death.
We of this Fraternity are of many creeds, but we are one in our
belief in the Supreme Architect of the Universe, by whatever name He
may be called. The Supreme Being, knowing man's fears of his fellowman and death, has given his children an answer to the problem. The
answer in "Charity." Not charity in the narrow sense of alms, or acts
of benevolence to the poor, as worthy as these may be, but in its broader
and deeper significance, the vesture or act of loving God with a love
that transcends that for creatures, and of loving others for the sake
·
of God.
In every great religion we have assurances of God's charity toward
us. but nowhere in religious literature has His love for man and his
assurance of life beyond the grave been more beautifully expressed
than in the 16th verse of the 3rd chapter of the Gospel according to
St. John: 'For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten
Son, that whosoever believed in him should not perish. but have everlasting life." Our belief in God is our only salvation, and His love for
us our only weapon against fear. It is this love that fills the universe.
and will in time bri~g all men to the realization of their obligations to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

229

their fellowmen; His love so great that death will have lost its terror;
His love so boundless that it passes comprehension.
"Could we with ink the ocean fill.
And were the skies a parchment made;
With every stick on earth a quill,
And every man a scribe by trade,
To write the love of God above,
Would drain the ocean dry;
Nor could the scroll contain the whole
Though sketched from sky to sky."
We leave our departed brethren in our Father's love, and thank
Him that they were with us for a little while.
RoYC. BRYAN
Ross K. ROPER
GEORGE JEAN
GEORGE L. EDMONDSON
ELMER BLASE
ALBERT V. YoUNGS
WILLIAM H. FREDERICKSON

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
Western Star Lodge No. 2:
Grant A. Schroter, died July 28, 1949.
Tehama Lodge No. 3:
Robert Blackwood McNairn, died October 26, 1948.
Edwin Delos Carpenter, died January 5, 1949.
John Alexander Brown, died July 6, 1949.
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8:
Crittenden Hampton, died December 19, 1948.
Charles Edward Shafer, died December 31, 1948.
Corinthian Lodge No. 9:
Harris Theodore Hosford, died June 1, 1949.
San Jose Lodge No. 10:
Allen Earl Chaffee. died May 12, 1949.

Yount Lodge No. 12:
Howard Alfred Harold, died January 22, 1949.
John Jacob Arnitz, died March 1, 1949.
Temple Lodge No. 14:
Alfred Julius Rubke, died January 22, 1949.
Eureka Lodge No. 16:
Albert Joseph Locher, died January 26, 1949.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19:
Ralph Eugene Wilcox, died August 10, 1948.
Washington Lodge No. 20:
Phillip Johnson, died April 6, 1949.
Madison Lodge No. 23:
William John Peters, died April 28, 1949.
Georgetown Lodge No. 25:
Dwight Ezra Douglas, died May 13, 1949.
San Diego Lodge No. 35:

Rainsford Wetmore Belding, died May 25, 1949.
Howard Lodge No. 37:
Clarence S. Smith, died June 11, 1949.
Martinez Lodge No. 41:
Frank E. Kennedy, died July 24, 1949.
Rex L. Boyer, died January 3, 1949.
Loa Angeles Lodge No. 42:
William John Fleckenstein, died December 2, 1948.
Hiram Lodge No. 43:
Harold Edward Kline, died June 13, 1949.
Walter Isadore Bidstrup, died July 2, 1949.
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
John Jacob Stahl, died July 27, 1949.
Crescent Lodge No. 45:
Robert Daniel Adler, died December 24, 1948.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Forbestown Lodge No. SO:
Charles F. Adams, died December 23 1948
Silas Albert Williams, died April 4, 1'949, ·
Suisun Lodge No. SS:
Warren Anthony Woods, died June 30, 1949.
GraTel Range Lodge No. S9:
Frederick Joseph Joubert, died March 5, 1949.
Natoma Lodge No. 64:
Richard Henry Borsberry, died November 5, 1948.
.Amador Lodge No. IS:
Robert P. Wolfenden, died November 14, 1948.
Forest Lodge No. 86:
John Henry Colman, died December 30, 1948.
Enterprise Lodge No. 70:
Will Francis Bird, died June 7, 1949.
CalaTeras Lodge No. 78:
William Thomas Treat, died July 5, 1949.
Humboldt Lodge No. 79:
George Alfred Cochrane, died January 20, 1949.
Yolo Lodge No. 81:
Morris Russell Giguiere, died September 12, 1948.
Vesper Lodge No. 84:
Ralph Olney Crumrine, died August 24, 1948.
Henry Clay Lodge No. 9S:
William Thomas Case, died June 14, 1949.
Yosemite Lodge No. 99:
Ralph Edgar Beam, died November 8, 1948.
Pajaro Lodge No. 110:
Miller Chandler, died August 18, 1948.
Arthur Thomas Dresser, died October 6, 1948.
Lafayette Lodge No. 126:
William Bradshaw Coats, died November 20 1948
James Corbun Shanks, died September 8, 1M8. ·
Hermann Lodge No, 127:
Ernst Gentner, died June 15, 1949.
Sincerity Lodge No. 132:
John R. Murray, died June 30, 1949.
Vacaville Lodge No. 134:
Warren C. Jenney, died January 3, 1949.
Crockett Lodge No. 139:
~1* L. Dailey, died January 1, 1949.
William Kahn, died February 9, 1949.
Curtis Lodge No. 140:
Horace Gustavos Grant, died August 20, 1948.
Franklin Lodge No. 143:
Ralph Krull, died September 4, 1948.

231

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Eel River Lodge No. 147:
James Ervin Hughes, died July 29, 1949.

Bakenfield Lodge No. 224:
Mervil Ward Gist, died July 17, 1949.

Excelsior Lodge No. 166:
James Winfield Crosby, died March 15, 1949.

San Mateo Lodge No. 226:
Herbert Luff, died August 4, 1948.

Redwood City Lodge No. 168:
Henry Walford Potts, died March 17, 1949.
John Wesley Poole, died April 29, 1949.

Solano Lodge No. 229:
Merrit F . Winchell, died June 12, 1949.

Petaluma Lodge No. 180:
Napoleon Bonaparte Rundall, died December 16, 1948.
Russian River Lodge No. 181:
Ned Stuart Wilson, died November 9, 1948.
Keith Lodge No. 187:
Kirby Lee McAtee, died January 8, 1949.
George Edward Skillicorn Sr., died March 31, 1949.
Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Herbert John Thornbury, died May 28, 1949.
Northern Light Lodge No. 190:
Verne Fawver, died April 28, 1949.

COYelo Lodge No. 231:
Earl Caldwell, died November 3, 1948.
Colusa Lodge No. 240:
Arthur Everett Scarlett, died December 12, 1948.
Pomona Lodge No. 246:
William Everett Stevens, died September 29, 1949.
Fresno Lodge No. 247:
John Cornell Downs, died September 25, 1948.
Beading Lodge No. 254:
Walter Wayne Shipley, died November 11, 1948.
Lodi Lodge No. 256:
Frank Albert Henning, died February 16, 1949.
Robert Alfred Richards, died November 9, 1948.

Marin Lodge No. 191:
Abraham Lincoln Borkheim, died May 3, 1949.
William Jennings Miller, died March 11, 1949.
Harvey Edward Sparrow, died October 29, 1948.

Lompoc Lodge No. 262:
Eleazer Albert Vaughan, died July 10, 1949.

Mountain View Lodge No. 194:
Willis Elston Hester, died March 24, 1949.

Hesperian Lodge No. 264:
Mark Holgate Whitney, died March 15, 1949.

Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
Homer Lusk Crouch, died December 12, 1948.

North East Lodge No. 266:
Walter Leon Hickerson, died January 31, 1949.

Salinas Lodge No. 204:
Charles L. Pioda, died January 18, 1949.
Henry A. Holm, died February 2, 1949.

Galt Lodge No. 267:
James Edward Davis, died February 18, 1949.

Olivet Lodge No. 205:
Bertram L. Reynolds, died October 23, 1948.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207:
Arthur L. Porter, died February 22, 1949.
King David's Lodge No. 209:
Grant Lee Cramer, died June 12, 1949.
John William Coleman, died July 4, 1949.
Friendship Lodge No. 210:
Harold West Raine, died August 5, 1948.
William Benedict Hiner, died September 15, 1948.
Clifton Maynard Perry, died November 2, 1948.
Joseph Pash, died January 4, 1949.
·
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214:
Merle John Rogers, died September 4, 1948.

Selma Lodge No. 277:
George Pawl Vincent, died September 14, 1948.
So. California Lodge No. 278:
Robert Harold Bacon, died September 28, 1948.
Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281:
Ellis Elsworth Shanahan, died December 27, 1948.
Maxwell Lodge No. 288:
George R. Houx, died October 4, 1948.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292:
Raymond Clay Hogg~ died July 6, 1949.
Cecil Robert Reynolds, died May 4, 1949.
Redlands Lodge No. 300:
Robert Douglas Baird, died December 21, 1948.

Mosaic Lodge No. 218:
Leslie Earl Wright, May 14, 1949.

Porterville Lodge No. 303:
Roy Elmo Tillis, died January 25, 1949.
James Donald Barnard, died April 1, 1949.

Sperama Italiana Lodge No. 219:
John Scalmanini, died July 22, 1949.

Reedley Lodge No. 304:
William W. Bondurant, died June 19, 1949.

233

23'4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ashlar Lodge No. 308:
Phillip Augustus Smith, died March 22, 1949.
Chas. Edward Mead, died April 8, 1949.

Monrovia Lodge No. 308:
Jacob Milton Bashor, died September 27, 1948.
Joseph Fowler, died November 10, 1948.
Temeacal Lodge No. 314:
Frederick Wilhelm Kuster, June 15, 1949.
Fallbrook Lodge No. 317:
Harry Ellwood Emery, July 24, 1949.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
Charles Frederick Clark, died March 8, 1949.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Buena Park Lodge No. 357:
Samuel Durbin Winters, died July 8, 1949.
Golden State Lodge No. 358:
Russell Bresee LaFontaine, died October 1, 1948.
Benjamin Green Wright, died May 19, 1949.
Alexander James Watson, died July 11, 1949.
George Mortimer Swain, died August 1, 1947.
San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Leonard G. Stevenson, died November 11, 1948.
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361:
Charles Burnes Melville, died April 20, 1949.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363:
Ernest Ambrose Richards, died October 23, 1948.

South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Giles "E" Stevens, died March 17, 1949.
Frederick Clements Kruell, died August 5, 1949.

Lu Palmas Lodge No. 366:
Preston Hays McMurtry, died May 20, 1949.

Whittier Lodge No. 323:
Leslie Carson Nanney, died June 26, 1949.

South Pasadena Lodge No. 367:
Franklin Padan, died March 19, 1949.

Redondo Lodge No. 328:
William Foote Sprinkle, died November 25, 1948.

Unity Lodge No. 368:
Frederick Baker, died June 28, 1949.

Kilauea Lodge No. 330:
Hilton Collins Walters, died February 19, 1949.

Ocean Park Lodge No. 369:
Charles Edgar Hyatt, died November 25, 1948.

San Pedro Lodge No. 332:
William Scott, died December 7, 1948.
Henry Marvin Woolsey, died April 14, 1949.

Richmond Lodge No. 375:
Douglass B. Crane, died April 13, 1949.

Covina Lodge No. 334:
Charles Edward Blanchard, died December 29, 1948.

Mizpah Lodge No. 378:
Harry 0. Gerholt, died August 15, 1948.

Carquines Lodge No. 337:
Benjamin Franklin Scribner, died June 3, 1949.

Highland Park Lodge No. 382:
William Donald Jackson, died April 11, 1949.
Joseph Underwood Brewer, died June 7, 1949.
Parnassus Lodge No. 388:
Harry Darius Saville, died January 2, 1949.

Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
George Cook Clark, died September 3, 1948.

Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389:
Thomas Francis Merrick, died May 2, 1949.

San Fernando Lodge No. 343:

Imperial Lodge No. 390:
Solomon Franklin Lotfer, died February 13, 1949.
West Lake Lodge No. 392:
Sylvester Charles Boarman, died September 16, 1948.

West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Stanley "S" Simon, died April 26, 1949.

George Wilbur Bates, died March 29, 1949.

Starr King Lodge No. 344:
Charles Michel Hackmeier, died April 18, 1949.
Armand Heumann, died May 9, 1949.
McKinley Lodge No. 347:
Hiram Elnathen Jacobs, died April 1, 1949.
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348:
George F. A. Feetham, died March 18, 1949.
Joseph Hurd Wilson, died July 23, 1949.
Presidio Lodge No. 354:
Jeremiah Coughlin Carson, died November 16, 1948.
Erwin Charles Wasser, died December 16, 1948.
Mill Valley Lodge No. 356:
Norman Brandt Wehr, died December 12, 1948.

Balder Lodge No. 393:
Philip Lauren Johnson, died December 3, 1948.
Bernard Robert Peterson, died December 16, 1948.
Turlock Lodge No. 395:
John Walter Guy, died August 8, 1948.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397:
Arthur A. Rooke, died April 24, 1949.
John Richards, died December 15, 1948.
George Benjamin McKey, April 4, 1949.
Bay View Lodge No. 401:
Walter Scott Brown, died July 27, 1949.

235

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Glendora Lodge No. 404:
Fred Long, died December 24, 1948.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Matthew Morton, Jr., died September 1, 1948.
Calexico Lodge No. 412:
Chas. Franklin Rice, died July 6, 1949.
Lindsay Lodge No, 416:
Adney Horace Askin, died June 4, 1949.
Clovis Lodge No. 417:
Luther Edward Weldon, died October 24, 1948.
Elysian Lodge No. 418:
Dudley Scott Valentine, died January 16, 1949.

Inglewood Lodge No. 421:
Robert Kenneth McGuire, died April 21, 1949.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422:
Vivian Lyle, died August 12, 1948.
Exeter Lodge No. 424:
Andrew William Quinn, died June 4, 1949.
San Dimas Lodge No. 428:
Lawrence Birney Gillette, died October 5, 1948.
Tyrian Lodge No. 439:
Frank Joseph Williams, died December 20, 1948.
Henry Isaac Porter, died March 19, 1949.
Standard Lodge No. 440:
Leon Le Roy Gummow, died November 7, 1948.
·

Torrance Lodge No. 447:
Ernest Noah Tomkins, died February 24, 1949.
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450:
Edward Martin Sherman, died April 13, 1949.
Moniebello Lodge No. 451:
Charles Bert Griffeth, died May 26, 1949.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452:
Francis Marion Secrest, died January 13, 1949.
William Childs Oglesby, died March 22, 1949.
Thomas Arthur Nelson, May 2, 1949.
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
William Kahrau, died October 22, 1948.
William Anthony Jaques, died July 16, 1949.
Rockridge Lodge No. 468:
Milton Thomas Farmer, died March 1, 1949.
Maui Lodge No. 472:
William Alexander Clark, died March 3, 1949.
Blythe Lodge No. 473:
Lace Clarence Hemphill, died August 11, 1948.
Temblor Lodge No. 477:
Charles Everett Simons, died April 26, 1949.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482:
Raymond Godfrey Vogel, died July 31, 1949.
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484:
Clarence Dague Browning, died August 16, 1948.
GarTama Lodge No. 492:
Clarence W. E. Smith, died January 21, 1949.
Acorn Lodge No. 494:
Charles Michael Herkenham, died July 15, 1949.
Capital City Lodge No. 499:
Irvin Chester Ford, died May 9, 1949.

R.ooHveli Lodge No. 500:
Emil Diedrick Zecher, died July 30, 1949.
Point Lodge No. 503:
Louis Arthur Hewitt, died August 9, 1948.
Ralph Carl Carr, died February 15, 1949.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507:
Stuart James Mandaville, died October 5 1948
Andrew Anderson, died February 22, 1949.
·
Euclid Lodge No. 519:
Edwin Calloway Hickey, died May 8, 1949.
Ionic Lodge No. 520:
Benjamin J. Moss, died November 25, 1948.
Catalina Island Lodge No. 524:
Charles Jacob Dash, died January 7, 1949.
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528:
James Dawson Savage, died October 27, 1948. ·
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536:
Austin Bruce Wadman, died October 31, 1948.
Belvedere Lodge No. 539:
P~~ Perl Long, died August 5, 1948.
William Deane Bennett, died ~ptember 10, 1948
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No: 541:
Willi~ Brodbeck Herms, died May 9, 1949.
Claudius Keefe Hayes, died July 26, 1949.
Lakeshore Lodge No. 551:
John Roger Wood, September 8, 1948.
Craftsman Lodge No. 559:
Davi~ Edward Henry, died September 8, 1948.
Martin Luther Thayer, died January 17, 1949.
East San Diego Lodge No. 561:
George Russell, died February 1, 1949.
West Adams Lodge No. 565:
Robert Earl Long, July 2, 1949.
Searchlight Lodge No. 567:
Blaine Smith Posten, died March 25, 1949.
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571:
Otis Stewart Wallace. died February 16, 1949.

237

238

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574:
Lloyd Jenny Learn, died January 20, 1949.

Merlcllan Lodge No. 867:
John Mathew Plummer, died May 7, 1949.
Myron Percival Trumbo_w er, died June 30, 1949.

Progressive Lodge No. 578:
Ulysses Lozo Mcintosh, died February 18, 1949.

Greenleaf Lodge No. 870:
Edmund Bardwell Skinner, died December 13, 1948.

Security Lodge No. 581:

Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672:
Charles Akin Griffis, died February 18, 1949.

Harding Lodge No. 584:
Alpha William Jumper, died June 8, 1949.

Loi Cerritos Lodge No. 674:

Charles Bruce Bradford, died April 30, 1949.

Garden Grove Lodge No. 586:
Edward Hiram Darlin~, died February 2, 1949.
James Hammontree, died July 27, 1949.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587:
Ferdinand Audres Hamilton, died August 6, 1948.
Chas. Harvester Hart, August 19, 1948.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592:
Axel Bernard Berg, died June 30, 1949.
Grizzly Lodge No. 601:
Leonard Burr O'Rourke, died June 6, 1949.
Melrose Lodge No. 602:
Herbert Robert Zenker, died June 3, 1949.
Dimond Lodge No. 603:
James Frederick Buscelle, died January 25, 1949.
Jubilee Lodge No. 604:
Louis Braasch, died September 29, 1948.
George Mull, died February 16, 1949.
Hemet Lodge No. 615:
William A. Calvert, died August 18, 1948.
Robert F. Raymond, died July 12, 1949.

R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616:
.
Glenn Allen Pierpont, died February 3, 1949.
Neptune Lodge No. 619:
Charles Fleming Andrews, died February 12, 1949.
Aubert Brice English, died December 20, 1948.
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626:
William Aloysius Finley, died February 24, 1949.
- Lucius B. Barnes, died March 29, 1949.
Truth Lodge No. 628:
,
Clyde Laverne Bankson, died June 29, 1949.
Benevolence Lodge No. 631:
Marshall Knox Neuman, died March 26, 1949.
Benjamin Mathewson Black, died June 14, 1949.
Alta Loma Lodge No. 643:
George Harrington Kilpatrick, died May 5, 1949.
Damascus Lodge No. 648:
Guy Lester Chambers, died September 2, 1949.
Malta Lodge No. 661:
Fred Louis Unger, died February 27, 1949.

239

Herbert Clifford Goldman, died July 27, 1949.
Vista Lodge No. 687:
Harry Samuel Wilkenson, died January 7, 1949.
Dale Owen Peet, died January 31, 1949.

At 12:10 P.M. Grand Lodge called off until 9:30 Thursday morning.

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

mission after having been convicted of a criminal charge by the Superior
Court Jury. The evidence gives ample support to the determination of
the Trial Commission. It might be well to point out that conviction
of a crime in a state court is only prima facie evidence of guilt before
a Masonic Trial Commission and that the Trial Commission is well
within its rights in finding the accused not guilty if they feel the preponderance of the evidence is in favor of the accused or offsets the prima
facie case.

MORNING SESSION, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1949
Thursday morning, October 13, 1949, Grand Lodge was called on
at 9:30 A.M .. the Grand Master presiding.
The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation.
The minutes of Wednesday morning, October 12th, were read and
approved.
·
The Grand Master presented to the Representative of Georgetown
Lodge No. 25 a duplicate charter which had been issued to replace the
original one because the latter had been lost in the fire which destroyed
their Masonic Temple last year.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
To your Committee on Grievances there has been referred a total
of 43 records. By this report, your Committee proposes to recommend
affirmance of the Findings of the Trial Commission in 29 cases. The
remaining 14 cases, a number of which involve Petitions for Restoration,
will be separately reported to you.
Section 332 of our Ordinances has again demonstrated its usefulness. Many extensive and time-consuming trials have been avoided
by resort to automatic expulsion, as authorized by this Section, when
the accused has been convicted of a crime classified as a felony, imprisoned in pursuance thereof. and does not demand a trial after having
been given due notice and an opportunity so to do. It seems necessary,
however, to caution the officers of Lodges to follow carefully the provisions of this Section and to exercise the greatest of care to see that the
notice to the accused required thereby is properly given to the accused
at his last known place of address. which frequently is the place of his
incarceration.
One of the trial records hereinafter listed involves the trial of the
Master of a Lodge. This is the first time in many years that such a case
has come before Grand Lodge. In this case the accused was found guilty
of repeated acts of drunkenness, which served to reflect discredit upon
the Lodge of which he was Master. Perhaps it is a little 'impertinent
upon the part of the members of your Committee to call this to your
attention during Grand Lodge week.
In some instances, we find that trials are conducted on an entirely
too informal basis. Dignity should surround all Masonic trials. Witnesses should be properly called, examined and cross-examined and the
entire matter conducted in accordance with the ordinances of Grand
Lodge. We find that the best results usually obtain when both the
accuser and the accused are represented by counsel.
In one case ( 1182), the accused was acquitted by the Trial Com-

241

Your Committee has carefully examined the record in each and all
of the following cases. We find that in each instance the trials have
been conducted in accordance with Masonic Law: that no errors substantiaJly a.ff ecting the result occurred in said trials and that in each
instance, substantial justice has been accomplished.
The trial records covered by this report are the following:
No. 1127-Restored by Lodge. A member of Santa Barbara Lodge No.
192. Suspended January 8, 1948.
No. 1158-A member of Justice Lodge No. 549. ExpeJled November
1, 1948.
No. 1159-A member of Occidental Lodge No. 22. Expelled December
6, 1948.
No. 1160-A member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382. Expelled
December 6, 1948.
No. 1162-A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612. Acquitted
December 7, 1948.
No. 1163-A member of Chico Lodge No. 111 . Reprimand September
14, 1948.
No. 1164-A member of Hesperian Lodge No. 264. Expelled January
3, 1949.
No. 1165-A member of Coronado Lodge No. 441. Acquitted November 2, 1948.
No. 1166-A member of Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Acquitted Feb..
ruary 1. 1949.
No. 1167-A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Acquitted February 1, 1949.
No. 1168-A member of Palisades Lodge No. 637. Suspended February 1. 1949.
No. 1169-A member of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568. Expelled
March 3, 1949.
No. 1170-A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Expelled
March 3, 1949.
No. 1171-A member of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580. Suspended
February 14, 1949.
No. 1172-A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Expelled April
5, 1949.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. 1174-A member of a Lodge in New Mexico. Acquitted December 9, 1948.
No. 1175~A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expelled March
3, 1949.
No. 1176-A member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166. Reprimand May
4, 1949.
No. 1177-A member of Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422. Suspended June
4, 1949.
No. 1178-A member of Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38. Expelled June
7, 1949.
No. 1179-A member of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348. Suspended
February 26, 1949.
No. 1180-A member of Guardian Lodge No. 596. Acquitted July
1, 1949.
No. 1181-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139. Expelled July 6,
1949.
No. 1182-A member of Vermont Square Lodge No. 515. Acquitted
June 7, 1949.
No. 1183-A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Suspended July 7, 1949.
No. 1184-A member of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202. Suspended August 2, 1949.
No. 1185-A member of Silver G~te Lodge· No. 296. Suspended July
1, 1949.
No. 1186-A member of Martinez Lodge No. 41. Expelled September
1, 1949.
No. 1187-A member of Hanford Lodge No. 279. Expelled September 7, 1949.

Trial Record No. 688

242

We offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED, that in each of the above enumerated cases, the Findings of the Trial Commission be and the same hereby are ratified,
affirmed and approved.
FRANK B. BELCHER
JoE L. SHELL
ALBERT F. Ross
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
RALPH E. HoYT
ANTHONY C, MECCA
VARNUM PAUL

Adopted.

243

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the petition of J.C.P. for
restoration to and the rights and privileges of masonry, reports as
follows:
~etiti?ner was expelled in 193.1 after trial in his lodge on three
specifications, namely ( 1 ) that he had induced the accuser to invest
$1500 in a corporation organized by petitioner to manufacture and
market a dental product devised by him ( 2) that petitioner had sold
stock in this corporation without a permit, and ( 3) that petitioner in
bankri.tptcy proceedings following failure of his corporation had concealed some of his assets.
The trial commission found petitioner guilty on the 1st specification,
and not guilty on the 2nd and 3rd specifications.
Petitioner has heretofore presented three applications for restoration; the first in 1933, the next in 1935 and again in 1937, each of which
w~s d~nied by Grand Lodge, without prejudice, because of the petitioners failure to support his application with sufficient proof of his rehabilitation since his expulsion.
Again petitioner comes to Grand Lodge, acknowledges his error,
and a~ks for restoration. Notice was given to his Lodge and a special
committee "'.'as appointed to investigate and report to the Lodge. The
lod~e committee made a report recommending disapproval of the application, and the Lodge voted 30 to 10 against favorable action.
Y~ur committee has interviewed the chairman of the investigating
committee and as a result of that interview believe that the committee
did not base its report upon the petitioner's conduct since his expulsion,
but largely upon the facts which resulted in petitioner's expulsion.
The question before Grand Lodge is this:
Has the petitioner now so rehabilitated himself that he will reflect
honor upon our institution?
Because of the present circumstances, your committee has been
careful in its scrutiny of the many letters of recommendation on behalf
of the petitioner. We have talked to the brother who as counsel for the
accuser, prosecuted petitioner before the Lodge. He recommends restoration of the petitioner. We have interviewed Masons who·are members
of the lodge and others who are members of other lodges in petitioner's
community. Our interest was in discovering what petitioner's conduct
has been since his expulsion. Our first inclination was to defer action
until next year on this petition, by reason of the fact that the record
there was unsatisfactory as to the conduct of the petitioner in the last
few years. We have now in the course of our own investigation, received satisfactory informatiun in that respect. The petitioner, we find
was practicing his profession of dentistry from 1941 to 1947, in San

244

245

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Francisco-that he was diligent in that practice and highly esteemed
by his associates; that in 1947, by reason of the failure of his health, he
found it necessary to retire; he is now an invalid, having suffered a
paralytic stroke and is in grave condition. He comes of a highly esteemed masonic family and he himself devoted many years to Masonry,
before his expulsion. To defer action upon his application until next
year would probably mean that Grand Lodge during his life could not
restore him and that neither he nor his fine family could have the benefit
of this act of clemency by Grand Lodge.
Your committee is aware of the fact that by restoring him, he will
not become a member of his former Lodge, or of any Lodge. If restored
by Grand Lodge he will become a Mason at large until elected to membership by some lodge.
Under all of the circumstances, your committee believes that the
showing made on behalf of this petitioner is sufficient to show rehabilitation and therefore offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the petition of J.C. P. for restoration to all the
rights and privileges of masonry be and the same hereby is granted.

stated meeting voted unanimously to recommend that petitioner's application for restoration be denied.
Petitioner presents in support of his application three letters from
reputable business men of Oakland, and two from attorneys of that
city. which letters urge his restoration.
Your committee believes that the first step to be taken by a man in
the process of rehabilitation is the frank recognition of his error, and
to repent of that error. This petitioner has not taken that first step, but
excuses his conviction by charging dishonesty and misconduct against
the then District Attorney, in whose integrity the Grand Lodge of California, has we believe the utmost confidence.
If and when the petitioner can come to masonry with sincere repentance in his heart, and a satisfactory showing of that repentance,
and that his conduct since his offense has been praiseworthy, we feel
sure that Masonry will not continue to condemn him.
Your Committee believes that this petitioner does not so come at this
time and therefore offers the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED: That the petition of B.F.B. for restoration to
the rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same hereby is denied.

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 671
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committe to which has been referred the application of B.F.B.
for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs leave to
·
report as follows:
The petiti6ner, formerly a member of Piedmont Lodge N~. 521,
was on the 8th day of July, 1930, convicted by a jury in the Superior
Court of Alameda County of the offense of conspiracy to ask and receive
bribes, and of bribery, a felony, and was on July 11, 1930, by the said
Superior Court committed to the California State Prison at San Quentin.
His Lodge took action looking towards automatic expulsion under Section 332, Constitution and Ordinances, and no request for trial having
been made by the accused, his expulsion became effective on October
7, 1930.
The petitioner's application has been considered by his former
Lodge. The master of that Lodge appointed a special investigation
committee which reported to the Lodge under date of August 29, 1949,
in effect as follows:
That the petitioner contends that his conviction in Superior Court
was the result of a "frame-up," that the then District Attorney, later
Grand Master of Masons in California, knowingly and intentionally
presented perjured testimony against him and that the petitioner will
continue to so believe to his dying day.
This report was presented to the Lodge which at its September

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 705
To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred the Petition
of E. P. P., formerly a member of Monterey Lodge No. 217, for Restoration reports as follows:
The petitioner was expelled by Grand Lodge in 1931 on charges of
living in a state of adultery with a woman not his wife.
Petitioner asked for restoration in 194 7 and 1948, but did not then
support his petition with any recommendatory letters or statements.
In support of his present application there are a number of strong supporting recommendations that the petition be granted. These are mostly
from Masons residing in the community where petitioner also lives.
It appears that petitioner married the woman involved in his offense
shortly after he was expelled and that they have both lived useful and
moral lives in their community since then and are highly respected. The
past has been forgotten and forgiven by those in daily contact with the
accused.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED that the peition of E. P. P. for restoration be
granted and that he be restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry
Adopted.

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Trial Record No. 840

his minor children, this would be evidence of his realization that he was
wrong and his endeavor to remedy the matter. If there was some cogent
reason why the petitioner could not support his children, such evidence
should also be presented. It is, therefore, suggested that the petitioner
be advised to present evidence as to his support of his minor children
since 1934 or his reason for not doing so. With such information, the
petition can then be intelligently considered.
We, therefore, offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED that the petition of E. M. R. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and it is hereby denied without
prejudice.
Adopted.

Your Committee to which was ref erred the petition for restoration
of the accused in trial record No. 840, respectfully reports as follows:
The petitioner, E. M. R. was expelled on September 6, 1934, for
unmasonic conduct based upon two specifkations, ( 1) that he had deserted, neglected and wilfully failed, for a period of two years, to provide
for his four minor daughters, then of the ages of 16, 14, 13 and 5, all
of whom were dependent upon him for suppport, and ( 2) that he was a
fugitive from justice, a warrant for his arrest having been issued under
Section 270 of the Penal Code of the State of California, charging
failure to provide for his minor children.
It appeared at the trial that a reasonable effort to locate the accused
had been made, and the trial proceeded even though there was no evidence that the accused had really received a copy of the summons and
charges. The evidence at the trial showed that the wife of the accused
had obtained a divorce from the accused and had custody of the minor
children. She testified that he had failed to support them and that she
was living upon relief provided by the county.
The accused, now a Master Sergeant in the U. S. Army, files his
petition for restoration, advising that he has been connected with the
U. S. Army practically all of the time since December, 1940. At the
present time, he is located at the Military Science Department of the
University of Cincinnati, but for the greater portion of the time he was
with the Army, he was stationed near Tucson, Arizona. The petitioner
does not indicate his occupation between the date of his expulsion in
1934 and 1940 when he entered upon his Army duty. The petition for
restoration is supported by three letters of recommendation, one from
a Congressman and former attorney for the family. one from an investigator in the Sheriff's office in Phoenix, Arizona, and one from a Past
Master residing in Seattle, Washington, and who served with the accused in the U. S. Army during World War II. The letters are general
letters of recommendation and do not indicate that the recommenders
knew of anything that the accused had done to provide support for his .
minor children.
It is the well-established principle of this Grand Lodge that a petitioner, in an application for restoration, has the burden of showing that
he has made a complete atonement for his errors and, therefore, deserves
favorable consideration. A mere expression of sorrow is not sufficient.
In this particular case there is no evidence that the petitioner in the
fifteen years since he was expelled from his Lodge, has made any contributions for the support of his children. The youngest of his children
was only five years old in 1934 when he was expelled, and would just
be reaching the age of majority at the present time. If the petitioner
had within the limits of his available income, made some effort to support

247

Trial Record No. 1043
Your Committee to which was ref erred the petition for restoration
of the accused, in Trial Record No. 1043, respectfully reports as follows:
The petitioner, S. G., a member of Union Lodge No. 58 at Sacramento, was charged with unmasonic conduct upon the specification
that the petitioner, while employed as a pharmacist, sold a narcotic,
to wit, paregoric, without the necessary written prescription. Criminal
proceedings were instituted against the petitioner in the Superior Court
of the State of California in and for the City and County of San Francisco, and the petitioner pleaded guilty to the charges, there being three
separate sales. He was given a county jail sentence and served his
sentence at the San Francisco County Jail from June 16, 1943 to January, 1944. The Trial Commission found him guilty of the specifications
and upon the charge of unmasonic conduct, the petitioner was expelled
on July 15, 1944.
The petitioner is now a practicing surgical Chiropodist and foot
specialist in addition to being a pharmacist and has flied his application
for restoration. The record indicates that Union Lodge has been notified
of the application for restoration and at a stated meeting a motion was
passed recommending against restoration. In support of the petitioner's
claim that he now bears a good reputation in the community, he has
furnished a number of letters of recommendation. These come from
business acquaintances as well as other members of the medical profession. In most cases the recommenders are members of the fraternity.
However, further time is required in order that the facts set forth in
these letters and other evidence presented to the Committee, regarding
the petitioner's rehabilitation may be fully investigated. .
We, therefore, offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:

249

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolved that the petition of S. G. for restoration to the rights and
privileges of Masonry be deferred until the next Annual Communication
of Grand Lodge.

have known him well for varying lengths of time. and who each believe
him to be of presently good character. Two of these letters are from
Past Masters of his Lodge. One is from the Captain of a United States
Navy tug, under whom petitioner has served for three years as Chief
Engineer. Another is from the Chief Engineer of the L S T No. 711,
under whom petitioner served as Assistant Engineer, on a voyage of
30,000 miles, and which is described as having been "under trying conditions." These letters speak highly of the petitioner's character, and
are all written with the knowledge of the former conviction of the
petitioner.
While your committee would not wish to be understood as condoning
the grave offense of which the petitioner was convicted, and while we
believe that in such cases applications for restoration to Masonry should
be scrutinized very carefully and should be accompanied by strong
evidence of rehabilitation, we believe that these requirements have been
met in this case. and we therefore offer the following resolution :

248

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1054
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which has been referred the application of
H. L. C. for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs
·
leave to report as follows:
The petitioner, formerly a life member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409,
was expelled by that Lodge on April 9, 1945, by the process of automatic expulsion provided for by Sec. 332, Constitution and Ordinances,
he having, after due notice of the filing with such Lodge of certified
copies of the final judgment of conviction of a felony by a United
States District Court. failed to request a trial by his Lodge.
· The petitioner had been convicted in the United States District
Court for the Territory of Hawaii of the offense of stealing a mill cutter
of the value of $377.50, and a band saw, of the value of $353.25, both
the property of the United States, and was, on· September 29, 1944.
committed to the Federal prison on Oahu, for a term of two years.
At the time of the commission of the offense the petitioner was a
planning estimator in the Civil Service of the United States. The accused entered a plea of nolo contendere in the Federal Court, and
represented to the Court that he had not intended to keep the machinery
which he had taken from the Navy Yard to his home, but had intended
to use it at his home and later to return it. He was. however, adjudged
guilty, and thereupon committed to prison.
After serving eight months of his sentence. petitioner was paroled.
He made application for reinstatement under the Civil Service, and in
October, 1945, was reinstated to his Civil Service status. In March.
1947, he applied for a Chief Engineer's License to the United States
Coast Guard in Honolulu. and was granted such license. In April, 1948,
he applied for a position of Engineer with the United States Army,
and is now employed as such under civil service status.
The petitioner made application in 1948 for restoration to Masonry,
but having failed to give proper notice to his Lodge 0£ his application,
Gra:nd Lodge at its 1948 communication, denied his application, without
prejudice. He now makes this application, and there is on file the certificate of the Secretary of his Lodge that on July 5, 1949, at the stated
meeting of the Lodge. the application of the petitioner was favorably
acted upon. by unanimous vote.
This petition is supported by a considerable number of letters recommending the approval of the petition, from men who state that they

RESOLVED: That the petition of H.L.C. for restoration to all the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby granted.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1087

I

To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:
Trial Record No. 1087 is now before Grand Lodge for the third
successive year.
Briefly, the history of this case is as follows:
The accused, a mem·b er of Golden Rule Lodge No. 479, was formerly Sheriff of Santa Clara County. During his term of office, he was
indicted by the Grand Jury on a charge of Conspiracy to Operate Slot
Machines and other accompanying devices in that County. When the
criminal case was tried, acting upon the advice of his counsel, he did
not take the stand and ~estify as a witness in his defense. The jury,
after a very long period of deliberation, returned a verdict of "Guilty."
While the crime of which the accused was charged is classified as a
felony. it was automatically reduced to a misdemeanor by virtue of the
fact that the trial judge did not send the accused to the penitentiary
but only caused him to be imprisoned in the Santa Clara County Indus·
trail Farm for a period of four months and assess~ng a fine in the sum
of $2000. Golden Rule Lodge No. 479 took no action on the case until
directed so to do by the then Grand Master Brouillet. On the lodge
trial, occurring in 1946. the record of conviction was introduced in
evidence. This created a prima facie case of guilt. The accused, how·
ever, testified at some length, asserting his innocence and charging that
his prosecution in the state courts was motivated by politics. The Trial

250

251

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commission unanimously acquitted the accused. As. the trial was
regular in all respects. your Grievance Committeee recommended to
Grand Lodge that the acquittal be affirmed. Past Grand Master Arthur
Brouillet vigorously opposed this recommendation of the Grievance
Committee, with the result that the Grand Lodge. by a sharply divided
vote, reversed the case and remanded it for a new trial. The case was
again retried by Gold Rule Lodge and again the accused, by a vote of
the Commissioners of seven to one, was found "Not Guilty." At the
meeting of Grand Lodge in 1948, your Grievance Committee again
unanimously recommended to Grand Lodge that the finding of the
Trial Commission be affirmed. The recommendation of the Grievance
Committee was predicated on Section 341 of our Ordinances, which, in
substance, provides that no judgment of a Trial Commission shall be
set aside unless Grand Lodge shall be of the opinion that errors committed at the trial resulted in a miscarriage of justice and also because
Grand Lodge has previously declared a judgment of acquittal by the
subordinate Lodge of .which the accused is a member should not be
reversed or disturbed by the Committee on Grievances or by the Grand
Lodge except in a case of gross violation of Masonic Law by the Trial
Commission or by the Lodge acquitting him. Again, Past Grand Master
Brouillet vigorously opposed the recommendation of this Committee.
Grand Lodge. by a sharply divided vote, adopted a resolution reversing
the recommendation of the Committee and the finding of "Not Guilty"
of the Trial Commission and remanding the case for retrial in a Lodge
to be designated by the Grand Master. Pursuant to this resolution,
the Grand Master designated California Lodge No. 1 to conduct the
retrial. The accused, on this trial. by a vote of six to one of the Trial
Commission, was found guilty. By a vote of five to two, the penalty
was fixed at expulsion. Evidence in all essential respects was substantially the same as it had been on the two previous trials of the
accused by his own Lodge. This last trial record is now before Grand
Lodge.
·
During the trial, the attorney for the accused objected to the jurisdiction of California Lodge No. 1 to try the case, claiming that the
accused was entitled to be tried in the Masonic District or in the County
in which his alleged unmasonic conduct took place. It was also asserted
that the accused could not compel the attendance of necessary witnesses
at a trial held in San Francisco. An objection was also raised that the
accused, by a retrial. was being placed twice in ,jeopardy for the same
offense and that a fair trial could not be had in San Francisco: that the
dictates of common justice required the accused to be tried in the then
County of his residence where he was known. The Master presiding
over the trial overruled all such objections and directed that the trial
proceed. Counsel for the accused gave oral notice of appeal to Grand
Lodge.

Your Committee advises Grand Lodge that in its opinion California
Lodge No. 1 having been designated by the Grand Master to conduct
the trial pursuant to a resolution of Grand Lodge, did have jurisdiction
of the cause. California Lodge No. 1 flied a new charge against the
accused. It was, however, identical with the charge as originally preferred. Grand Lodge had twice reversed the finding of "Not Guilty"
of the charges as originally preferred. There was, therefore, no final
judgment on such charges. This was in effect a retrial upon the same
charge and by reason of this fact, the plea of being placed twice in
jeopardy was not well taken. The rulings of the Master were. therefore,
correct.
In the opinion of your Committee, there is no substantial error
reflected in the record which would warrant Grand Lodge on the face
of this record alone in reversing the present finding of "Guilty" and
the sentence of expulsion. The evidence presented a question of fact
for determination by the Trial Commissioners. The evidence was such
that it would have supported either a finding of "Guilty" or an acquittal.
just as it was also sufficient, in the opinion of your Committee, to support
the two previous acquittals. Findings of guilt or of acquittal by Trial
Commissions should not be lightly overruled by Grand Lodge. A reversal of the determination of a Trial Commission should only occur
where there has been errors in the trial of the case or such a complete
disregard of the evidence as to result in a miscarriage of justice. Such
has long been the guiding rule of Grand Lodge.
Your Committee is still of the opinion, which was shared by a substantial number, including several past Grand Masters, that the two
prior verdicts of acquittal should have been sustained and that the
present finding of guilt and sentence of expulsion, while warranted on
the face of the present record. can only be upheld because of the action
on the part of Grand Lodge when this case was before it in 1947 and
again in 1948. Of the total of twenty-three Trial Commissioners before
whom the accused has appeared, sixteen have voted him "Not Guilty"
and seven have voted him "Guilty."
While not agreeing with the end result in this case, your Committee
must accept the action of Grand Lodge taken in 1947 and 1948, and
finding the present record sufficient to sustain the finding of the Trial
Commission, must recommend affirmance of its findings.
We therefore reluctantly offer the following Resolution and move
its adoption:
RESOLVED. that the Finding of "GUILTY" by the Trial Commission and the fixing of the penalty at expulsion, be and the same
hereby is ratified, affirmed and approved.
Brothers Hoyt and Paul join in the Resolution. but not in the report.
Adopted.

252

'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Trial Record No. 1129
. To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is a petition for restoration by H. G. an entered apprentice
Mason of Bay City Lodge No. 526. He was suspended by action of the
Grand Lodge 1948.
In May 1946 when H. G. was made an Entered Apprentice Mason,
he was employed as a real estate salesman by J. B. a real estate broker,
and a member of a lodge in this jurisdiction. As a result of a real estate
transaction, J. B. preferred charges of unmasonic conduct against H. G.
and he was tried by Bay City Lodge therefore and given a reprimand.
When the record of the case came before Grand Lodge, it was returned
for further trial because no finding had been made on the specification.
It further appeared that if H. G. were guilty of wrongdoing, so was
J. B., the employer who preferred the -charge, and, therefore, Grand
Lodge ordered that both parties be tried by a neutral lodge, the two
being members of different lodges. After separate trials, both were
found guilty of unmasonic conduct. H. G.'s penalty was fixed at ex;.
pulsion but thereafter reduced to suspension by Grand Lodge. The
petition for restoration was filed August 17, 1949.
In his petition for restoration, H. G. invites attention to the fact
that at the time of his transgression, he was a novice in the real estate
business and was badly guided by his employer, J.B., who was an elder
and more experienced real estate operator. He also invites our attention
to his candor and straightforwardness at both trials, where in he attempted to fully and correctly set forth all of the facts of the transaction.
He recognizes that his acts were wrongful but he believes himself to be
rehabilitated and points to his conduct since 1946.
The petition is supported by a letter from the Master of Bay City
Lodge who states that he has known the petitioner for many years and
has always held him in high esteem. He believes that the petitioner
has had ample time to consider his actions and has repented. ·
The Secertary of Bay City Lodge, by a communication dated Sep;.
tember 30, 1949, advises that the petition for restoration has been discussed with the master and wardens of the lodge. and while no official
action was taken by the lodge, it was the belief of both the master and
the secretary that H. G. had been sufficiently punished for his misdeeds
and that his application should be granted.
The record shows that notice of the petition has been duly given to
both Bay City Lodge in which H. G. was made an Entered Apprentice
Mason, and Fidelity Lodge No. 120, in which he was tried and found
~~

.

It appears that petitioner has been subject to two trials for his
misdeeds and has suffered suspension since his first trial in 1946. It
further appears that his conduct since the commission of his misdeeds

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

253

has been exemplary, and that the lodge in which he was made an Entered Apprentice Mason is satisfied as to his good character and fitness
for masonry.
In view of the foregoing, your committee offers the following resolution and moves its adoption:
RESOLVED: that the petition of H. G. for restoration to all of the
rights and privileges of an Entered Apprentice Mason be and the same
is hereby granted.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1156
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The accused E.B.T. was charged with unmasonic conduct in that he
failed to provide for his minor child. The record contains no copy of
the minutes of the meeting at which the Commissioners were elected.
. It contains a copy of a summons to the accused dated April 20, 1948,
in which the date of trail is set for May 4, 1948. It also contains copies
of letters to the Com.missioners, advising that they were elected on May
4, 1948, and indicating that the date of the first meeting of the Commissioners was set for June 1, 1948.
During the time here involved, the accused ·was living in Tripp City,
Ohio, and on May 4th the summons was mailed to the accused, summoning him to appear on June 1st to answer the charge. This summons
was received by the accused on May 24th and on May 26th he wrote
to the Master of the Lodge acknowledging receipt of the Master's
letter of May 4th, denied his guilt of the charges and stated that he
could not be present to defend himself. On June 6th the Master wrote
the accused, acknowledging his letter, and stating that he had postponed
the trial from June 1st to September 7th.
There is no record that the Commissioners met on June 1st or that
the hearing was adjourned by the Commissioners, as provided in Section 320 of the Ordinances.
On September 7th the Commissioners met. Accused was not present
and was not represented. No sworn testimony was received and no
competent evidence was presented to indic~te that accused had wilfully
failed to support his minor child.
The Commissioners found accused guilty of the specification of
failing to provide for his minor child but took no vote on the charge of
unmasonic conduct and fixed the penalty at suspension. ·
Where the accused is out of the State, Section 308 of the Ordinances
requires that the summons and a copy of the charges shall be issued and
served upon him at least ninety days before the trial. The record indicates that the summons and charges were not properly served, that the

254

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

255

lascivious conduct with little girls, shows moral turpitude, and we think
this accused merits expulsion from the order.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Be it resolved that the action of the trial commissioners of Downey
Lodge No. 220 in finding H. R. D. guilty of unmasonic conduct be
approved. but that the penalty be changed from suspension to expulsion,
and that the said accused by expelled from all the rights and privileges
of Masonry.

June 1st meeting of the Commissioners was not properly adjourned and
that the evidence was insufficient to support the charge.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the action of Pyramid Lodge No. 562 in suspending E.B.T. from all rights and privileges of Masonry be reversed
and set aside and that the case be remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1157

Trial Record No. 1161

Your committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1157, reports as follows:
Accused, H. R. D., a member of Downey Lodge No. 220, was convicted in the state courts of ten counts of lewd conduct with two girls
under fourteen years of age, his stepdaughters, aged 8 and 10 years
respectively, and was sentenced to imprisonment in San Quentin prison,
to which he was committed. On appeal to the state District Court of
Appeal, the convictions on all but one count were affirmed. It was held
that one count was a duplication of one of the other counts, and the
conviction as to that count was reversed. The judgment as to tqe other
nine counts thus become final.
Accused was brought to trial in the lodge on charges filed against
him specifying the nine separate counts of lewd conduct for which he
had been convicted in the state courts. Whether any proceedings were
first taken for automatic expulsion does not show in the record, and, if
not, no explanation is offered or is apparent why that procedure was
not followed where the accused was convicted of a felony and was
sentenced to imprisonment therefor.
The summons was served on accused by mail at a prison forestry
camp where he then was. He did not appear at the trial either in person
or by attorney.
The evidence at the trial before the commissioners consisted of
certified copies of the charges and judgment against accused in the
state superior court and certified copies of the judgment of the appellate
court affirming the judgment on nine counts. These documents made
out a prima facie case of guilt against the accused at the Masonic trial.
He was found guilty of all nine specifications and of the charge of
unmasonic conduct, and was ordered suspended.
The finding of guilt was proper. However, Grand Lodge has consistently held that where a Mason is convicted of a crime against the
state involving moral turpitude, and unless there are circumstances in
mitigation of the punishment, the penalty should be expulsion. Certainly
nine violations of Section 288 of the California Penal Code, lewd and

Your Committee to which was referred Trial Record No. 1161
reports as follows:
The accused, W.C.H., was tried in Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672,
but had been a member of a lodge in Illinois from which he had been
suspended for non-payment of dues some years ago. The charges were:
( 1) "That on or about the 28th day of October, 1947, he did ask to
visit Laguna Beach Lodge, a right reserved only to Master Masons in
good standing while he was knowingly not in good standing in any
reular lodge of Masons, having been suspended" by the lodge in Illinois.
( 2) That on said occasion "he did gain admission to a meeting of
Laguna Beach Lodge by the practice of fraud and deceit, thereby cheating, wronging and defrauding a Lodge of Master Masons out of that
which was not his just due, all of which was done with willful intent
to violate the Laws, Rules and Regulations of Masonry."
The trial before the commissioners of the lodge consisted mainly
of a lengthy cross-examination of the accused by the accuser, counsel
for accuser, and commissioners. There was no competent evidence introduced against him except a visiting card which he had signed on the
occasion in question.
The statement of the accused was that he had been suspended in his
Illinois lodge some years ago for non-payment of dues and was now
living in California; that he knew that his son was to receive his third
degree in Laguna Beach Lodge on the night in question; and almost
two months earlier he mailed a check for $70.00 to the Illinois lodge
with a request for reinstatement. He said that sum was more than
enough to cover his delinquency, but that he received no answer.
His son-in-law 'phoned him the day of the degree that he had discussed the matter with some member of Laguna Beach lodge and that
it would be all right for him to come to the meeting that night, which
he then did. He entered the lodge hall with his son-in-law, who said
to someone in the anteroom, "This is Brother H, the father of the candidate. I can vouch for him," and that he was then given a visiting card
to sign but that nobody asked to see a receipt or anything. He had

..

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

brought along his check book so he could show the stub for the $70.00
check sent to Illinois, which was in apparent sequence in the book and
in proper place to correspond with the date he claimed to have mailed
it. This check stub was displayed by him at his trial.
Not only was the accused allowed to visit, but he was even called
on to act on a visiting committee for another visitor and signed that
visiting card as a member of the examining committee.
A letter was introduced from the secretary of the Illinois lodge
stating that he could find no record of any $70.00 check 'being received
nor of any reinstatement of the brother there. This was hearsay evidence, and does not disprove the testimony of the accused that he was
acting in good faith in making this visit to Laguna Beach lodge.
The trial commissioners found the accused Guilty of the first specification and of unmasonic conduct, but they divided 3 to 3 on the second
specification, which was not therefore a finding of Guilty on that. He
was sentenced to suspension.
The son-in-law, who had vouched for accused, had been tried separately for his offense and ordered reprimanded, which finding and penalty
was approved by Grand Lodge a year ago.
As above stated, the vote of three for Guilty and three for Not
Guilty on the second specification is tantamount to an acquittal on that
count. The first specification, on which conviction was had, does not,
in our opinion, state a Masonic offense. It charges merely that the
accused asked to visit a Masonic lodge. Asking such is certainly no
offense.
.
It seems that there is no evidence to contradict the fact that the
accused acted entirely in good faith in making this visit, desiring to
witness his own son receive the third degree, and that if the officers
of the lodge had required the showing of a receipt for dues under the
seal of his lodge as required by Section 170 of the Ordinances of this
Grand Lodge, he would not have been permitted to complete his blunder.
Accused testified that he felt that he had been reinstated in Illinois and
that he would hear from the lodge there in due time, and when his sonin-law reported to him that a lodge member had said a visit by him
under those circumstances would be all right, it was natural for him to
believe that such was the case. It does not appear that his action was
wilful or unlawful in any way. Not only does the specification fail to
state a Masonic offense, but the finding of Guilt in this case was not
justified or supported by the evidence at the trial. The letter from the
lodge secretary in Illinois was rank hearsay and contained statements
that the former secretary had told him he knew nothing of the $70.00
being received from the Accused, etc. It does not contradict the testimony of the accused and his showing of good faith.
Because of the lack of proof of any fraudulent intent on the part of
the accused we feel that this proceeding should be entirely terminated,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

257

and we offer the following resolution for adoption:
Resolved that the action of the Trial Commission of Laguna Beach
Lodge No. 672 in finding W. C. H. guilty of unmasonic conduct and
suspending him from the rights and privileges of Masonry in this state
be reversed and the said order of suspension be vacated, and the proceeding dismissed.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1173
•

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Accused J. P. F. was charged in two specifications-owning and
operating a bar and being a bartender. Upon the trial he pleaded guilty
to both charges and presented facts by way of extenuation, indicating
that he had gone into the liquor business in order to recoop moneys
which he had advanced to the former owner of the business, and that
at the time of the trial he had sold the liquor business and was planning
to go into another line of activity. He was found guilty on both specifications and of unmasonic conduct. The penalty was fixed at reprimand.
The accusor, the Junior Warden of Guadulupe Lodge, has filed an
appeal.
Section 210 of the Ordinances provides that any Mason who shall
commit either of these offenses, "shall be deemed guilty of unmasonic
conduct, and shall, upon due trial and conviction of said offense, forfeit
all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership in any Lodge.''
Reference is made to the reports of the Committee on Grievances
on Trial Records No. 1134 and 1149, wherein at its last annual Communication the Grand Lodge adopted resolutions modifying the penalty
of suspension and fixing it an expulsion for violation of Section 210
of the Ordinances, for the reason, as stated by the Committee, that the
language of Section 210 " .•• does not permit of the penalty of suspension and commands the penalty of expulsion."
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED: That the finding of guilt by the Trial Commission in
Trial Record No. 1173 be and the same is hereby affirmed and approved,
but that the penalty of reprimand be and the same is hereby modified
and the penalty fixed at expulsion.
Not adopted.
Chairman Frank Belcher of the Committee on Grievances called
the attention of Grand Lodge to the fact that the action taken on Trial
Record No. 1173 was not consistent with Section 210 of the Ordinances.
Brother Belcher then moved that the findings of the Trial Commission
and the penalty fixed by them 'be affirmed, ratified and approved.
The above motion was not adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

258

...

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Chairman Belcher then again presented the original report of the
Committee on Grievances on Trial Record No. 1173, recommending
that the finding of guilt be affirmed, but that the penalty be modified
and fixed at expulsion.

The Grand Master called upon Past Grand Master George R.
Harvey of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands. As the desig..
nated representative of his Jurisdiction at this Communication, Brother
Harvey presented the following:

Adopted.

MASONIC CONDITIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES

Trial Record No. 1188
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In the trial covered by Record No. 1188 from University Lodge
No. 394, the announcement of the result of the trial was made in the
Lodge on September 12, 1949.
Under Section 338 of Ordinances of Grand Lodge an appeal may
be taken within thirty days after the announcement of the result. This
period has not yet expired.
.
.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED that consideration of Trial Record No. 1188 be de..
£erred to the next meeting of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1189
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In the trial covered by Record No. 1189 from Jordan Lodge No. 654
the result was announced September 6, 1949. An appeal has been taken.
Under Section 339 of Ordinances of Grand Lodge sixty days is
allowed to the Accuser and the Accused within which to submit addi..
tional evidence, and written arguments or representations. This period
has not expired.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED that consideration of Trial Record No. 1189 be de~
£erred to the next meeting of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

RESOLUTION
The following Resolution was introduced and referred to thtt Com..
mittee on Policy and General . Purposes and the Committee on Juris..
prudence.
Grand Lodge Ritual
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED, that Section Three of our Constitution be amended
to read in the language of the original Constitution of 1854 plus the
addition of the Grand Lodge Officers added since that time.
Respectfully submitted,
CHESTER H. WARLOW, Past Grand Master

259

"-

..

Most Worshipful Grand Master and the Grand Lodge of California:
The Most Worshipful Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Masons
of the Philippine Islands, through the Grand Secretary, has written a
letter to me stating that it would be a great privilege for him to be pres ..
ent in this Grand Lodge Annual Communication; but that, it not being
possible for him to be here, he has appointed me as his personal repre..
sentative to extend fraternal greetings from him and the Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands to you and the Grand Lodge of California.
I appreciate this honor and privilege and your courtesy in receiving me
as such representative. Our Grand Lodge takes pride in the fact that the
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California is its Mother
Grand Lodge, and I take this opportunity to express to you and your
Grand Lodge our appreciation of the cordial fraternal relations which
have at all times existed between these two Grand Lodges, and we are
happy to anticipate the continuance of such fraternal relations.
I cannot give you from my personal knowledge a complete report on
present conditions of Freemasonry in the Philippine Islands, as I have
been absent from that Grand Jurisdiction since November 20, 1941,
when I left Manila on vacation in the United States. I anticipate that
your Grand Lodge must be particularly interested in the present condi..
tions of the Masonic Lodges in the Philippines since the organization
of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands and the results of the
invasion of the Islands by the Japanese Imperial Army during the late
war and its efforts to suppress the Masonic Fraternity in the Philip..
pines, and I can better give you this information through the reports
of certain officers of the Grand Lodge who have personal knowledge
of those conditions.
It is very generally known among the members of the Fraternity in
California that prior to American occupation of the Phillippines the
majority of the Lodges then existing in that country were chartered
by the "Grande Oriente Espanol," of Madrid, Spain; but that within
a few years after the American occupation of the Islands, between
1901 and 1907, charters were granted by the Grand Lodge of Free·
and Accepted Masons of California to three Lodges in the Philip ..
pines, namely. Manila Lodge No. 342, of Manila; Cavite Lodge No.
350, of Cavite, and Corregidor Lodge No. 386, of Manila.
Between 1906 and 1909 the Grand Lodge of California had a committee investigating the origin and status of the Spanish Lodges in the
Philippines. That investigation showed that the "Grande Oriente

260

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Espanol" had invaded the Grand Jurisdiction of Pennsylvania by the
issuance of charters for lodges in that Grand Jurisdiction. For that
reason the Most Worshipful Grand Master of California considered
the "Grande Oriente Espanol" as irregular and not worthy of recognition, and he prohibited the three Lodges in the Philippines chartered
by that Grand Lodge from having Masonic intercourse of any kind
with the lodges chartered by the "Grande Oriente Espanol."
The three Lodges in the Philippines chartered by the Grand Lodge
of California were sufficient in number for the organization of the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands, but the officers and members of the
three Lodges wanted to have all the regular Lodges in the Philippines
to unite in organizing the new Grand Lodge. There were two other
regular Lodges in the Philippines which were chartered by the Grand
Lodge of Scotland, namely, Perla del Oriente Lodge No. 1034, in
Manila, and Cebu Lodge No. 1106 in Cebu.
Finally, in 1912, the three Lodges chartered by the Grand Lodge
of California severally adopted a resolution in favor of the organization
of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Philippine
Islands, and fixed November 17, 1912, at 8:00 o'clock, P. M., Masonic
Temple, Manila, as the time and place for the preliminary meeting for
that purpose. However, the two Scotch Lodges did not send any dele~
gates to that preliminary meeting, and it was unanimously agreed by
the delegates from the three lodges under the Grand Lodge of California
to postpone the preliminary meeting to December 11, 1912, at 8:00
o'clock, P. M .• in the Masonic Temple, Manila, in order to give the
Scotch Lodges an opporturnity to take action on this matter in their
next stated meetings. But the Scotch Lodges did not send any delegates
to the meeting on December 11, 1912, and it was rumored that they
could not take any action in the organization of a Grand Lodge without
obtaining a dispensation from the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of Scotland.
Inasmuch as the three Lodges chartered by the Grand Lodge of
California had the legal right to organize a Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the Philippine Islands, it was decided to proceed
with the organization of the new Grand Lodge. The organization was
completed in the early morning of December 19, 1912, and all the
elected and appointed officers present at that time were installed in their
respective offices.
The new Grand Lodge was quite promptly recognized by practi~
cally all the regular Grand Lodges of the world during 1913, 1914, and
1915; and during that time efforts were being made to bring about the
so-called "Unification" of all the Masonic Lodges in the Philippines
under the new Grand Lodge.
In November, 1916, the officers of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands and the officers of the various other Lodges in the Islands

•

261

came to an agreement upon the method of bringing all the Lodges under
the authority of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, and on and
after November 11, 1916, Most Worshipful Grand Master William H.
Taylor issued dispensations to the several Spanish Lodges to which
dispensations had been previously issued. This completed the unification of all the Masonic Lodges under the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands, except Perla del Oriente Lodge No. 1034, of the Grand Lodge
of Scotland, and with that one exception all the Masonic Lodges in the
Philippines, for more than thirty years, have been granted charters by
the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Philippine
Islands.
The Japanese Imperial Army sought to suppress Freemasonry in the
Philippines and deliberately killed the Junior Past Grand Master, M.
W. Bro. Jose Abad Santos, and the Grand Master, M. W. Bro. John
R. Mc~'ie, and the Deputy Grand Master, R. W. Bro. Jose P. Guido,
and maltreated and abused other prominent Masons while they were
held as prisoners or internees in Fort Santiaga: and they damaged and
destroyed the properties and records of the Masonic organizations in
the Philippines. But, in spite of such merciless and criminal activities,
the Lodges and other Masonic bodies have been to a great extent rehabilitated, and the latest information is to the effect that Freemasonry
is still thriving in the Philippines. The Filipino people and most of the
foreign residents in general appreciate the Masonic Fraternity and its
good teachings and practices. The appreciation of Masonry by the
Filipino Brethren was very well expressed by the M. W. Grand Master
Esteban Munnarriz in his inaugural address at the last Annual Communication, when he said:
"In our beloved Philippines, not everything looks rosy at present.
There are some discordant elements which are trying to disrupt the
peace and harmony in our homes, in our institutions, and in our established government. Our sons of old have given their lives to fight
tyranny and oppression for the liberation of our country; and Masons
are those who continued the peaceful struggle for the independence
which we are now enjoying. As Filipinos we certainly owe a debt of
gratitude to Masonry. As Masons of today, ours is the duty to find
ways and means to eliminate the presence of those discordant elements
who, like termites, are trying to weaken the foundations of our structures. If strong measures have not been successful in eliminating them,
let us try to use benevolent means. Let us. all be instruments of peace.
Where there is hatred, let us sow love. where there is doubt, faith:
where there is despair. hope; and where there is sadness, joy. In this
way we may be able to succeed and enjoy once more the blessings of
peace in our homes and in our institutions, ancl we shall find the way
to our ultimate goal of universal peace and brotherhood."

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Mauro Baradi, Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge, in his
oration under the heading "Masonry in Progress," in part, said:
"In spite of the persecution. prosecution, and punishment of its
adherents on questionable and flimsy grounds and under adverse cir~
cumstances. Freemasonry has taken root in the world, and its member~
ship considerably increased. Such is our Craft. It is progress.
"We need not go far to illustrate our point. Postwar Masonry in the
Philippines furnishes an illustration. We who have suffered and are
still suffering from the disastrous effects of the last global conflict are
familiar with the facts. To mention a few will suffice.
"When after a period of over three terrible and seemingly endless
years of enemy occupation, our country was liberated early in 1945 by
the armed forces of Democracy. the Brethern who survived the holocaust
found themselves in a destitute condition. Some lost their loved ones
and all their property and some knew not what to do; and the others,
deprived of home and shelter. knew not where to go. The immediate
problem had to be solved, which was relief to the distressed worthy
Brethem, their widows and orphans. Officers of the Grand Lodge at
the time, with characteristic foresight, made the corresponding appeal
to friends across the seas. We had a feeling of anxiety for those close
to us and genuine solicitude for those in want. But, true to Masonic
tradition, the encouraging reply was not long in coming. The honor
roll of those who responded is impressive as it is inspiriting. It consists
of more than 38 Grand Lodges in the United States and Canada,
besides other organizations and individuals. · The substantial sums
contributed were received through the Grand Lodge of California and
the Masonic Service Association of the United States. To each and
every one of these benefactors, we reiterate our gratitude and express
our thanks. Their liberality and benevolence we will not soon forget,
but shall long remember. Theirs is a treasured memory, a golden tie
that binds us together in the name of Masonry."
On the subject of rehabilitation of the subordinate Lodges and the
ban on Freemasonry, Brother Baradi said:
"Another problem was the reestablishment of subordinate Lodges.
It was but natural that the members wanted to resume their labors as
soon as possible. The ban on Masonry issued during the war only made
them more eager to start anew. The task was not easy. Traveling was
still dangerous and distance a hindrance. Doubt and hesitation would
have caused further delay in the work, if not another setback to the
undertaking. To advance was more preferable than to retreat. The
obstacles were overcome, and within a comparatively short period most
of our Lodges, including those in China, were reorganized and others
constituted.
"Still another item in the agenda had yet to be disposed of. namely,

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

263

the repair or reconstruction of Lodge buildings or the erection of new
ones. Practically all Masonic documents. jewels, and paraphernalia
were looted, libraries burned, and temples ruined. This involved a
question of financing. In all the Lodges the situation was the same.
Everybody was broke. Many were down, but not out. And the remedy:
borrow and build, or dispair and quit. Masons are not quitters. Their
honor was at stake and they gave until it hurt. What appeared impos~
sible to do would be done again. And so it was done with the result
that bigger and better buildings have risen where small ones stood
before: and new and inspiring structures have been erected which
ordinarily could not have been built at all.
"Our progress of rehabilitation, reconstruction, and reorganization
is far from being finished. And more men, money, and materials are
still required to complete the enterprise. But we have had the will, and
we worked hard, and we accomplished something."
According to the report of the Grand Secretary in the last Annual
Communication, there were then 101 Lodges in active operation, four
of them being under dispensation, and the Lodges have 7,099 Master ·
Masons, 198 Fellowcrafts, and 390 Entered Apprentices. The gain
over the preceding year was 81 7 Master Masons.
Brethren of the Grand Lodge, the foregoing extracts and other
information from the official records of the Proceedings of the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands in the Annual Communication of 1949
show to some extent the progress that Freemasonry is making in the
Philippines in spite of the efforts of hostile forces to ban and destroy
the Masonic Fraternity in that country.
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren, I thank you one
and all for your courtesy, kind attention, and interest in permitting
me to bring to your attention some of the difficulties and trying con~
ditions that we have had to contend with in the establishment and
maintenance of Freemasonry in the distant outpost of the Philippine
Islands. I trust that this limited information may be sufficient to
demonstrate to you the good Masonic character of our Brethren in the
Philippines, and that you are convinced that our Filipino Brethren and
other Brethren associated with them in the Grand Jurisdiction of the
Philippine Islands are worthy of the assistance that we have given
them and may hereafter give to them in their further progress in their
aims and purposes in Freemasonry.
GEORGE R. HARVEY

Past Grand Master
At 12:20 P.M. Grand Lodge called off until 2:00 P.M.

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION

We, therefore, recommend that Section 101 be amended in accordance with the foregoing proposal of the Charters Committee by increasing the minimum number of petitioners from twelve to twenty-five,
and the maximum number from twenty-five to fifty.

Grand Lodge was called on at 2:00 P.M .. the Grand Master presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL
PURPOSES

Adopted.

Investment Committee

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes respectfully submits the following report on subjects submitted to it for consideration
and recommendation:

Most Worshipful Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master and
Grand Treasurer submitted to Grand Lodge the following Resolution
providing for the adoption by Grand Lodge of the so-called Prudent
Man Rule in connection with the investment of Grand Lodge fu~ds:
RESOLVED, that' the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended by
striking therefrom Paragraph 2 of Section 86 which reads as
follows: There shall be a Committee on Investment of Endowment Funds consisting of the Grand Treasurer, and the Chairman (or some member designated by him) of the Jurisprudence
Committee, the Finance Committee, the Board of Trustees of
the Masonic Homes, and the Masonic Homes Endowment Board.

Masonic History of California
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the report of the Committee on Masonic History requesting an additional appropriation of $4,539.77 in order that it may complete the manuscript of the Masonic History of California.
Your Committee is pursuaded that the facts justify the request and
commends the proposed appropriation to the favorable consideration of
the Committee on Finance.
Adopted.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Ordinances of Grand Lodge
be amended by striking therefrom Section 721 which reads as
follows: RESOLVED, that funds of the Endowment Fund be
invested only in Federal, State, County or Municipal bonds legal
for savings banks.

Number of Members in New Lodge
Minimum and Maximum Membership
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the Resolution submitted by the Committee on Charters,
relative to the minimum and maximum number of Masons who may
petition for a dispensation for a new lodge.
Section 101 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge now provides that
the minimum number of Masons who may petition for a dispensation to
form a new lodge is twelve, and the maximum twenty-five. The members of the Committee · on Charters ask that the Section be amended
to provide for a minimum number of twenty-five and a maximum number
of fifty.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes agrees with the
view of the Committee on Charters that under present day conditions,
a petitioning group of twelve members would experience much difficulty
in establishing a lodge on a sound and permanent basis, and that an
increase of the maximum to fifty would give additional strength to any
group entering on the task of creating a new lodge.

265

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Ordinances of the Grand
Lodge be amended by striking therefrom Section 655.
STANDING RESOLUTION

.... -

BE IT RESOLVED that the following Standing Resolution be adopted:
There shall be an Investment Committee of five members consisting of the Grand Treasurer, who shall act as Chairman, the
President of the Masonic Homes Board, the Chairman of the
Finance Committee, and two additional members who shall be
appointed by the foregoing with the approval of the Grand
Master; one to serve for 1 year, and one to serve for 2 years.
In the case of a vacancy or vacancies of an appointed member
or members, the remaining members of the Committe shall, with
the consent of the Grand Master, fill such vacancy or vacancies
for the unexpired term. Upon expiration of the respective terms,
a successor shall be appointed in the same manner for a term
of 3 years. The Investment Committee shall have the power to
invest and re-invest the funds belonging to or held in trust by the

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

Grand Lodge, and a majority of the Committee shall be empowered to act for and on behalf of the Committee. The Investment
Committee or a majority thereof is authorized to acquire every
kind of investments in the nature of securities, specifically including, but not by way of limitation, corporate obligations of every
kind, and stocks, preferred or common, which men of prudence,
discretion and intelligence acquire for their own account. The
Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary shall be empowered
to sign such documents as may be necessary to carry out the
actions of the Committee.
FRANCIS v. KEESLING, P.G.M.

Columbia Temple
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes, the report of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee
wherein a budget of $43,672.00 is recommended by the architectural
firm of Donald Beach Kirby and Thomas B. Mulvin.
Grand Lodge at the 99th Annual Communication approved the
restoration of Columbia Temple, and machinery was set in motion for
the execution thereof.
The report by the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee is,
therefore, referred to the Committee on Finance.
. Adopted.

The foregoing Resolution was referred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes, the Committee on Finance and the Endowment
Board. Much of the time of these Committees during this Communication of Grand Lodge has been devoted to this proposal. Numerous
joint conferences have been held. The Homes Board and individual
members of Grand Lodge have requested and have been granted extended hearings. All phases of the Prudent Man Rule have been explored
and able dissertations have been given with reference to investment,
trust and financial policies.

Masonic Club Within A Lodge
Your committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
that portion of your Grand Masters' message wherein he recommended
against the creation of a Masonic Club by a constituent Lodge, membership to which would be limited to the members of that Lodge.
Your committee is in complete accord with the belief of the Grand
Master that the creation of such a club within a Lodge would sooner
or later result in the development of cliques and possible disharmony.
Your committee approves the Grand Master's recommendation
against the formation of the club.
Adopted.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the Committee
on Finance as well as the Endowment Board favor, as a matter of policy,
the adoption of the Prudent Man Rule. We feel, however, since its
adoption would mean a departure from our present practice as set forth
in our laws, that more time should be given to study of the matter
·before the proposed Resolution is finally submitted for adoption or rejection by the Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, therefore, submits
the following Resolution in which the Committee on Finance joins:
RESOLVED: That the incoming Grand Master be requested to
appoint a Committee of five qualified· members of Grand Lodge
to study and consider during the coming year the proposed adoption of the Prudent Man Rule as set forth herein in Past Grand
Master Keesling's Resolution and to report to Grand Lodge at
its regular Communication in 1950.
Adopted.

. I,,
I

Westchester Lodge Per Capita Tax
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it that portion of the Grand Secretary's report in which he recommended to the Grand Master, and which recommendation was approved
by him, that Westchester Lodge, U.D. be not required to pay the per
capita tax, as the Lodge was instituted just six weeks before the close
of the fiscal year.
Your Committee feels that no precedent should be established by
this action but that such decision be left to the discretion of the Grand
Master.
We therefore move the adoption of the report.
Adopted.
Transfer of Membership to New Lodge
There has been referred to this Committee the resolution proposed
by the members of the Committee on Charters clarifying the procedure
by which membership is acquired in a Lodge instituted under dispensation.
Your Committee recommends that the proposal be adopted as to
Policy and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence for them to
formulate legislation.
Adopted.

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Outdoor Degree

the Old Historical Benicia Temple and have carefully considered the
same.
We are in accord with the idea of the preservation of this, the first
Masonic structure in this jurisdiction. This is not something to be reconstructed. It is itself the actual material donated by Bro. Robert
Semple. who presided at the state Constitutional Convention of 1849,
and the building which received within its doors brethren whose names
are written large in the annals of our state. It ought not be permitted
to pass into hands of those who may consider its destruction for financial
reasons.
In the past, Grand Lodge has appropriated larger amounts than
here required and for less worthy objects. Your committee cannot give
blanket approval to these projects but are ·o f the opinion that this project
is of unusual merit. However, the Grand Lodge of California is under
constant and heavy demand for funds for many purposes.
The amount involved here is not great and there may be and probably are other means of accomplishing this worthy object and your
Committee recommends consideration of other possible methods before
resorting to appropriation by Grand Lodge of the required amount which
latter we recommend as a last resort.
We therefore recommend that the report be referred to the Finance
Committee for further consideration and exploration of ways and means
and that the sum of $5.000.00 be appropriated conditionally subject to
payment on the order of the Grand Master and Chairman of the Finance
Committee only in the event all other means of acquisition have failed,
and in such event that the title thereto be vested in Grand Lodge under
contract with Benicia Lodge No. 5 to assume all necessary expense of
carrying and safeguarding the investment.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred that portion of the Grand Master's message denying an appli#
cation for a special dispensation from Santa Rosa Lodge No. 38, F. &
A. M. to confer a Third Degree in one of their public parks, concurs
with his decision. The Committee feels that the granting of such dispensations be left to the discretion of the Grand Master and move that
this report be adopted.
Adopted.

Grand Lodge Ritual
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes the resolution offered by Most Worshipful Chester Warlow,
P.G.M., proposing that Section 3 of the Constitution of the Grand
Lodge of California be amended to read as it did in the year 1854 with
the addition of the names and titles of such Grand Lodge Officers as we
now have, who were not provided for in our earlier constitution in those
simpler days.
·
Your Committee has given the same careful consideration and believe that such legislation should be adopted as to effect the change. ·
We are in that situation explained by our Right Worshipful Deputy
Grand Master when he was Junior Grand Warden which requires if
we are to be consistent a change in either the Constitution or in our
rituals for the opening and closing of Grand Lodge, the Grand Lodge
Installation Service, the Laying of Corner Stones, the Dedication of
Cemeteries, the Constitution of Lodges, and possibly other ceremonies.
For one hundred years a member of our Grand Lodge has used the
phrase "Most Worshipful Grand Master" in addressing that officer
instead of simply "Most Worshipful" as I have opened this report. We
feel that long custom in the manner of addressing our officers in the
various ceremonies and the conduct of Grand Lodge proceedings outweighs the merit of maintaining the modern wording of our constitution.
It may be added that we arrive at consistency with one change by this
method whereas many alterations in our ceremonies become necessary
to effect consistency if the constitution remains as it now is.

Adopted.

Grand Lodge Officers Hotel Expense

•

We therefore recommend the adoption of the policy and that the
matter be referred to the Jurisprudence Committee for drafting of the
legislation.
·
Not adopted.

Purchase of Benicia Temple
There has been referred to your committee on Policy and General
Purposes the Report of the Special Committee on the Acquisition of

269

..

Your committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred that portion of the Grand Master's message recommending
legislation providing for the payment of the hotel expense of appointed
Grand Lodge Officers for the period of Grand Lodge Week beg leave
to report as follows:
We are not unmindful of the fact that in many instances men worthy
of appointment as Grand Lodge Officers might find it a financial hard~
ship to bear the expense of hotel and meals during Grand Lodge Week,
however, we feel considerable honor attaches to the appointment to
such offices and some small sacrifice is not too great to make as an
incident of such appointment. . Our Pay of Members Committee is very
liberal in its interpretation of the ordinances and the discreet use of
the funds received as Pay of Members will leave little expense to be
privately borne. Where that little would be a hardship we feel the

270

271

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Grand Master has within his control funds available by reason of the
annual appropriation by Grand Lodge of a fund from which the travel
expense of officers and members traveling by authority of the Grand
Master may be paid.
We are of the opinion, however, that such payment should be an
exception and not the rule.
We therefore recommend that the recommendation be not approved.
Adopted.

Unmasonic Conduct and Section 297 provides a form for such notice.
Your committee is of the opinion that this and all official notices
emanating from the lodge should bear the signature of the Master,
attestation of the Secretary and the seal of the lodge and we therefore
recommend the adoption of the resolution and that it be referred to the
Jurisprudence Committee for the approval as to form.

Masonic History Publication
There has been referred to your committee on Policy and General
Purposes the report of the special committee on the publication of the
Masonic History of this jurisdiction.
We are heartily in accord with the publication of this history which
has been in course of assembling and compilation for more than twenty
!ears and we think this centennial year is the opportune time to present
it to the craft both from a financial standpoint and from the point of
benefit to our members.
·
We are aware of the fact that the entire manuscript has not been
the work of the Chairman of the Masonic History Committee who has
labored so long upon it and therefore assume that its contents will be
cardully scrutinized before being placed before the craft and public.
.we recommend that in or<:l:er that the publication committee may be
assisted thereby that after the price has been determined by competitive
bids that advance subscriptions be taken accompanied by suitable deposits and a pre-publication price which will encourage early purchase
by the craft and thus assist in the tum over of the cost of publication
and fixing the ultimate number of sets to be printed in the first edition.
The Finance Committee concurs in this report and will make an
additional report.
Adopted.

Form of Notice for Election of Trial Commissioners
Most Worshipful and Members of Grand Lodge:
There was referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes a resolution proposed by Bro. Wm. T. Lisenby, P. M. of University Lodge No. 394, amending Section 296 of the Ordinances of Grand
Lodge by adding the following sentence thereto:
"Said notice shall show that it is issued by order of the
Master and it shall bear the attestation of the Secretary."
and that Section 297 be amended by adding:
...E .................... L...................., Master
Attest: G ......- ............ N ....................• Secretary,"
Section 296 provides for the giving of notice to the call of meeting
for the election of commissioners to try a brother upon charges of

Adopted.

Method of Receiving a Plea of Guilty
Most Worshipful 'and Brethren of Grand Lodge:
There was referred to your committee on Policy and General Purposes the resolution offered by R. W. Arthur Paulsen, Senior Grand
Warden, and W. Warren Libby, P. M. of Blackmer Lodge No. 442,
providing for the enactment of a new section of the Ordinances of this
Grand Lodge to be numbered Section 309.1 which provides for a method
of receiving a plea of "guilty" by the accused after the receipt of charges
of unmasonic conduct by the Master, and before the trial by the Commissioners.
Your committee has given the resolution careful consideration and
has heard the statements of those in favor and opposed thereto.
The primary purpose of the proposal seems to be to save expense,
avoid publicity and possibly to secure speed in infliction of the penalty.
On the other hand it would appear that an opportunity is afforded for
the accftsed to say with some basis of truth, "I resigned from that outfit-that's how much I think of them": there is but one penalty provided,
viz., expulsion and it would seem that the punishment is severe for a
minor offense or an accidental or unintended breach of our code; the
record would be insufficient to permit the Grievance Committee to
adjust the penalty to the offense or in fact to intelligently consider the
facts on the automatic appeal or in fact to pass upon any questions save
whether or not the charges have been admitted by the accused: that if
at some future time application should be made to Grand Lodge for
reinstatement, the facts of the case would be a matter of the word of
the Master against that of the accused who might charge that he was
induced to sign the admission under coercion of the Master: at such
late date the witnesses who could have testified to the truth of the
charges might be dead or addresses unknown and be beyond reach of
the Master; that charges by the accused of coercion, falsification and
vilification could be of great embarassment to an honest conscientious Master who would be helpless in the face of such charges by an
unscrupulous person; that the plea of guilty should be received and
made of record before more than one person and the existing ordinances
provide a proper, plain and ample method for such procedure and for
the making of a record upon which future consideration of the case can

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

be had upon a record containing all the facts with such certainty and
verity as to be 'beyond impeachment by the accused.
That section is 314 of the Ordinances and reads as follows:
"The accused should now present his answer to the charge
and specification which answers may be either oral or written and
should be made a part of the record. In this answer he may make
a general or particular denial of all the specifications of the
charge, or he may deny some and admit others, and make statements in justification or extenuation of those committed; or he
may admit all, with expressions of sorrow for his misconduct; or
in fact, he may make any answer which to him, or his counsel,
shall seem meet."
This section follows that other section which provides for the assembly of the commissioners and its organization, and the above section
provides that the statements of the accused shall be made a matter of
record.
Your committee is of the opinion that these proceedures are essential
not only to the safe9uarding of the rights of the accused but for the
protection of our Masters against calumny, false charges and vilification
and for the other reasons here expressed and we therefore recommend
that the legislation be not adopted.
I move the adoption of the report.
Adopted.
( See note at end of the report of this Committee for consideration
of alternative legislation.)

Expenditures for Public Schools Week Observance
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The resolution presented by six lodges concerning the expense of
conducting the observance of Public Schools Week and recommending
that such expenditures be paid out of the general funds of the lodge
and not charged to the refreshment fund, has been referred to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes and it has had our consideration.
Your Committee is of the opinion that no change should be made
in existing law upon this subject.
The general funds of the lodge are. charged with the payment of
the expenses of operation, Grand Lodge dues and assessments, and
relief. We think no added burden should be placed upon this fund. The
cost of operating our. lodges is increasing, the Grand Lodge per capita
assessment is increasing, and while it may not be felt as yet, we may
reasonably expect in the not too distant future increasing requests for
relief.

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

It is the understanding of your Committee that lodges are not
expected or required to incur any large expense in this connection.
The Grand Lodge of California initiated many years ago the movement in America for the fixing of a special time during which the attention of our countrymen should be directed to our public school system.
The movement has gained impetus down through the years and has
received the endorsement of schools, societies of various character, the
National Educational Association, States and Grand Lodges. We think
the time has come when all that is necessary on the part of our lodges
is to encourage, cooperate in and foster this work. This ought not require
any large expenditure on their part.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
Adopted.

Masonic Information Booklets
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a request of Brother Henry W. Coil, Chairman of the Committee on Masonic Information, that an unused appropriation of last
year be reappropriated for printing the Masonic Information Booklets
prepared by that Committee on the Fellowcraft and Master Mason
Degrees.
Your Committee at the last annual communication recommended and
Grand Lodge adopted the proposal to publish these booklets.
Your Committee therefore recommends that the present request be
referred to the Committee on Finance.
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

Publication of Lists of Applicants
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution that the ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended
by the addition in Article V, Part II of a section 224-A, entitled "Notice
of Receipt of Application" to read as follows:
"Before the next Stated Meeting after its receipt, the Secretary shall mail a notice to each member of the Lodge
at his usual address, that the application has been received. Such notice shall contain the full name, age,
occupation, residence and business address of the applicant."
This proposal follows an adoption as policy at the 94th Annual
Communication of a recommendation by Past Grand Master Leslie E.

274

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Wood that Lodges be required to notify their members of ~11 appli~a­
tions for Degrees and for affiliation, within ten days after th~1r reception
by the Lodge and that this notice carry the full names, residences and
business add;esses and the ages and occupations of the applicants.
The Grand Lodge at the 95th Annual Communication voted against
legislation proposed to carry out this recommendation.
.
Your committee feels that the dissemination of the proposed notice
in the public mails and to homes of members could cause them to fall
into the hands of the profane and thus make public matters which
should be known only to members o1 the Craft. This might result
many times in embarrassment and trouble to both the lodge and candi~
date. Rather than risk this danger, it would appear that the present
provisions for notice to the mem·bers of applicants for Degrees or for
affiliation should suffice.
Your Committee therefore recommends that the resolution be not
adopted.
Adopted.

Application Forms and Investigating Committee Procedure
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a report of the Special Committee on Application Forms ~nd
Investigating Committee Procedure, and related proposals o~ the Grievance Committee and of Upland Lodge No. 419, recommending changes
in the application forms for Degrees and for Affiliation, and new investigating procedures.
. .
The Special Committee on Application Forms and Investigating
Committee Procedure has presented its proposals in a lengthy ten-page
report. The proposal of the Grievance Committee covers in a .more
amplified form questions which the Special Committee suggested be
put to an applicant to ascertain any criminal ~ackground.' ~he proposal of Upland Lodge is that there be inse~ted m the appl~ca~1on form
some questions on the loyalty of the applicant to the pnnc1ples and
preservation of the American Government and specifically whether the
applicant is or has been a Communist.
.·
It appears to your Committee that some of the recommendations are
worthy of serious consideration and should be adopted in order that a
full and complete investigation of applicants be made so as to p~eserve
the qualifications of entry into Freemasonry. Apparently there 1s need
for more detailed information than is now usually sought and for some
more effective standard operating procedures. Time available at this
present Communication, however, does not permit a full consideration
and report on these various proposals. Meanwhile, the lodges themselves may study these proposals and voluntarily appoint personal committees and formulate and use questionnaires should they so desire.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the incoming Grand

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

275

Master appoint a Committee composed of one member of the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes and one member of the Committee on
Jurisprudence to investigate and study these several proposals and
report its findings and recommendations at the next Annual Communication.
The Committee on Jurisprudence concurs in this recommendation.
Adopted.

••

Discretionary Expenditures
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a proposal of Crockett Lodge No. 139 that Section 158,
Ordinances of Grand Lodge, be amended to permit expenditure of not
to exceed $20.00 by donation to the Endowment Fund of Grand Lodge
in memory of a deceased brother if his family should request a donation
to charity instead of Bowers. The present provisions of Section 158
authorize a Lodge to remember a deceased brother by a floral gift.
Your Committee feels that Lodge funds should not be diverted from
purposes now permitted, and, especially so in this case, since the families
of deceased brethren would object to Bowers only in rare instances. The
purpose of our floral remembrance would not be served by a donation
to charity and, in any event, the amount of the gift would not justify
this departure from our traditional practice.
Your Committee therefore recommends that the resolution be not
adopted.
Adopted.

Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the resolution submitted by Mike S. Oldershaw, W.M.,
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, Frank M. Wilkson, W.M .. Meudell Lodge
No. 695, and Orville L. Colearn, P.M., Bakersfield Lodge No. 224.
This resolution proposes to amend Section 159 of the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge to read as follows:
Sec. 159-A lodge may expend, in its discretion, not to exceed
thirty per cent of its total revenue for the purposes of refreshment and promotion of fraternal intercourse. This fund may
be cumulative in the discretion of the lodge in an amount not to
exceed twenty per c~nt 'between January 1, 1920 and January
1, 1950, and in an amount not to exceed thirty per cent thereafter.
The present law limits such expenditures to twenty per cent of the
Lodge's total revenue, cumulative from January 1, 1920.
In view of the changing economic conditions and the certainty that
greater demands will have to be made upon the general funds of the

277

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

constituent Lodges which funds constitute the other eighty per cent of
their income, it is the recommendation of the Committee that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Postponement of Lectures
.To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Worshipful Brother Irwin G. Beadle, Master of Corona Lodge No.
324, makes formal suggestion that the Master's lectures of the First
and Third Degrees be eliminated from the regular Degree Work and
that at the end of the Master's year, all candidates raised during his
term be assembled and a revised lecture to cover the Three Degrees 'be
delivered to them at that time.
Lectures of the Masonic Degrees, as well as the First and Second
sections of that work are, when properly rendered, both beautiful and
instructive, not only to the candidate, but also to the brethren assembled.
Within the framework of these lectures are to be found many wise and
serious truths and their oft reptition more firmly imprints these lessons
upon the minds of our members.
If the lectures of these Degrees were to be consolidated and to be
delivered but once a year, there certainly would .be a material loss of
beauty and impressiveness of our ceremonies.
The Committee therefore recommends that the suggestion of Brother
Beadle be not adopted.

276

Not adopted.
( See note at end of the report of this committee for leglslation
adopted.)

Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse
Brother Charles A. Palmer, Senior Warden of Ophir Lodge No. 33,
proposes an amendment to Section 159 of the Constitution by adding:
"Lodges with a membership less than 100, who own their Temple
Building free of encumbrances, may expend not to exceed 40% of its
·
total net revenue."
Temple Buildings even if free of encumbrance are not readily convertible to meet demands of charity.
It is the view of the Committee that the allowance of 20% of income
for refreshment and fraternal intercourse is ample and that for reasons
already advanced at this Communication relative to increase of this
fund to 30%. this proposal should also be rejected.
The Committee so recommends.
Adopted.

Dimits for Entered Apprentices and Fellow Craft~
There has been referred to this Committee the recommendation of
the Grand Master "to repeal Sections 243-A and 243-B and adopt
legislation permitting a lodge in its discretion to grant dimits to Entered
Apprentices and Fellow Crafts."
Your Committee is familiar with the history of this matter as recited
by the Grand Master in his message, and is sympathetic to the remedy
which he suggests as a means of ending the present unworkable procedure.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that this Grand Lodge
adopt the policy proposed by the Grand Master, and that the matter be
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence for the formulation of
proper legislation.
Not adopted.
(See note at end of this report for proposal of substitute legislation
and action thereon ) •

Adopted.

Centennial Arrangements
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The report of the Committee on Centennial Arrangements was
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
This report contains one specific recommendation for Grand Lodge,
in these words, "The Committee recommends appropriate legislation
to permit the attendance of Master Masons during the opening of
Grand Lodge."
In view of the fact that the recommendation is offered by the Committee on Centennial Arrangements, it is presumed that they have in
mind the opening and closing ceremonies of the Grand Lodge on the
specific occasion of its Centennial Communication in 1950.
The Centennial celebration of this Grand Lodge is certain to attract
the attendance of Masons from all parts of the world. In anticipation
of that attendance, a large auditorium in San Francisco has been reserved for the formal Communication in that year. In that structure,
there will be available a seating capacity for several thousand members
of the Craft.
While there might be some objection that persons not members of
the Grand Lodge of California, or otherwise not entitled to be present
at the opening ceremonies thereof would thus hear and see the formal
opening of our Grand Lodge in ample form, yet it is the opinion of this

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Committee that the importance of the occasion and the desire to bring
the impressiveness of our ceremonies to all visiting brethren, overrules
such objection.
It is therefore the recommendation of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes that all Master Masons in good standing be admitted
to the opening and closing ceremonies of the Annual Communication
of this Grand Lodge in 1950. and that legislation for that purpose,
limited to that specific year, be prepared and adopted at this present
Communication of Grand Lodge.

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1949
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A. M. the Grand Master presiding.
The invocation was given by the Grand Chaplain.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday,
October 13th were read and approved.

278

Adopted.
At 4:55 P. M. Grand Lodge called off until 9:30 A. M. Friday.

279

COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
REPORT CONTINUED
Custodian Agreement
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has been asked to
consider the Custodian Agreement appearing as an exhibit in connection with the Grand Treasurer's report, the same having reference to
the financial operations between Grand Lodge and the Anglo-California
National Bank.
Your Committee, upon reviewing the said Custodian Agreement,
does not consider it a matter of policy, and recommends that the same
be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Adopted.
General Conferences
In his annual message, the Grand Master recommends that should
his successor desire to hold general conferences of the elected officers
and the principal committee chairmen of Grand Lodge to discuss matters
Masonic and clarify questions of policy, sufficient funds should be made
available for the necessary expense of travel and hotels.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes approves the
Grand Master's recommendation as to policy.
Adopted.
Inspectors Residence
The Grand Master's message contains a recommendation that the
words "a resident of the District for which he is appointed" be stricken
from Section 53 of the Ordinances.
This recommendation was made by the Grand Master in connection
with the appointment of inspectors, and particularly in relation to the
difficulty in some cases of finding a man residing in an inspectoral
district, who is qualified and willing to take over the responsibility.
It is the intention to allow, in such cases, the appointment of an inspector
residing outside the inspectoral district.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes approves the
Grand Master's recommendation and refers the same to the Committee
on Jurisprudence.
Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Funerals
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has ·h ad llnder
consideration that portion of the Grand Master's message dealing with
the subject of Masonic funerals, and particularly with situations more
or less embarrassing arising out of the ruling, in 1916, of Grand Master
Burnett, that the Masonic Lodge shall "have charge of and conclude
the service.''
It appears that argument is occasionally created as to the part that
clergymen participating in the funeral service shall have, particularly
with reference to concluding the service and pronouncing the final
benediction, etcetera.
The Grand Master recommends that Sections 647 and 648, Edicts
and Resolutions, be rescinded, and that our Lodges conduct Masonic
funerals in accordance with Section 266 of Ordinances. This Section
makes no mention of clergymen and the Grand Master observes that
should it be the desire of the family that the minister of the deceased
brother conclude the service, give a eulogy, or word of comfort, or
pai:ticipate at the beginning of the service, the Master, the family of the
deceased, and the minister of his church should mutually decide the
order of the service, bearing in mind, of course, that our entire service
must be given.
Your Committee approves the recommendation of the Grand Master
as to policy.
Adopted.
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
WILL H. FISCHER
WILLIAM B. OGDEN
ROLLIE. w. MILLER
LESLIE. E. Woon
HENRY C. CLAUSEN
CHESTER H. WARLOW
GEORGE T. SNYDER, JR.
ANDRE.' L. ARMAND

Method of Receiving a Plea of Guilty
After the report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
relating to this subject had been given, Brother Warren E. Libby offered
an amendment by substituting for the r.eport of the Committee the
following Resolution that the policy of such an amendment be adopted
and the matter be referred ·to the Committee on Jurisprudence to prepare
legislation for presentation at the 1950 Annual Communication.

280

281

The substitute motion was n~t adopted.
The report of the Committee was adopted.
Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse
After Grand Lodge had voted against the adoption of the report
of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes relative to the above
subject. Brother Mike S. Oldershaw re~submitted the following pro..
posal by which Section 159 would be amended to read as follows:
"Ssc. 159 A Lodge may expend, in its discretion, not to
exceed thirty per cent of its total revenue for purposes of
refreshment and the promotion of Fraternal intercourse.
This fund may be cumulative in the discretion of the
Lodge in an amount not to exceed twenty per cent be~
tween January 1, 1920 and January 1, 1950, and in an
amount not to exceed thirty per cent thereafter."
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence for legislation.
Dimits for Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts
After Grand Lodge had voted against the adoption of the report of
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes relative to the above
subject, Past Grand Master Chester H. Warlow presented the following
Resolution:
RESOLVED, that Sections 243~A and 243~B be rescinded and
that the law be amended to permit the granting of dimits
to Entered Apprentices or Fellow Crafts permanently
removed from this Jurisdiction.
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence for legislation.

282

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE

collected by such Lodge. This error was not detected until after the
close of the fiscal year. when it was immediately called to the attention
of the Grand Secretary and a request made for the return of such excess
payment.
Your Committee on Finance presents the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
RESOLVED: That the Grand Secretary be authorized to refund
to A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645 the sum of $170.00 and to charge the
same against collections received for the Endowment Fund during the
current fiscal year.

Past Grand Master Claude H. Morrison, Chairman of this Com~
mittee, recommended that the action of the Grand Master in extending
financial assistance to the Grand Lodge of Ecuador be approved.
Adopted.
The separate sections of the report of the Committee were presented
by various members of the Committee as follows and each were sepa~
rately acted upon and adopted.
AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS

In accordance with the action of the Grand Lodge at the last Annual
Communication, the auditing procedure has been changed during the
past year.
According to Brother Walter Parker, the monthly audit of accounts
has proved very satisfactory and has facilitated the preparation of the
annual audit report.
Your Committee has reviewed the reports of the Grand Treasurer
and the Grand Secretary covering the accounts of the Grand Lodge and
the Endowment Fund. and also the financial portion of the report of
the Trustees of the Masonic Homes all of which have been certified
by the auditors. In our opinion they reflect the true condition of the
affairs of the Grand Lodge and its constituent organizations. We be~
lieve that the same auditing procedure should be followed during the
coming year, and are recommending in the proposed budget an amount
which we believe will be sufficient to cover the additional cost.
PRUDENT MAN RULE

The recommendation of the Grand Treasurer with reference to the
adoption of the "Prudent Man Rule" was referred to this Committee ·
as well as the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the Endowment Board. This Committee concurs in the report which was given
by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. We have no inten~
tion of prolonging discussion of the matter except to express, for the
record. our approval of the legislation which is proposed. and to suggest
that all members of the Grand Lodge endeavor to familiarize themselves
with the principles under which the Prudent Man Rule operates so
that they may be prepared to express themselves at the next Annual
Communication. It is a very important question. We trust that it will
be given careful consideration.
OvER PAYMENT BY A. F. E. IRWIN LonGE No. 645

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645 in remitting contributions received
for the Endowment Fund. forwarded $170.00 in excess of contributions

283

SoTOYOME LoDGE No. 123

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This Lodge is still in need of assistance from Grand Lodge. the
problem of purchasing their temple. as reported by this Committee in
previous years. remains unchanged.
Your Committee on Finance presents the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
RESOLVED: That there be paid from the funds of Grand Lodge
monthly to Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, the sum of $150.00 during the
lifetime of Mrs. Bush, such sum to be used by such Lodge to fulfill its
obligation to Mrs. Bush.
Further, that such sums so advanced. including amounts heretofore
paid such Lodge. shall be considered as a loan to Sotoyome Lodge No.
123 and be repaid by such Lodge in a sum of not less than $100.00 per
month. until the full amount advanced shall have been repaid, together
with interest thereon at the rate of three per cent per annum.
THE COLUMBIA TEMPLE RESTORATION

At its last Communication, Grand Lodge. against the recommenda~
tion of the Committee on Finance. voted to rebuild the old Masonic
Temple in the historic town of Columbia as a Masonic Shrine, and
appropriated the amount of $38.204.00 for the purpose.
As explained in the message of the Most Worshipful Grand Master.
the work was not started in the last fiscal year so the appropriation
lapsed.
As related in the report of the Columbia Temple Restoration Com~
mittee. the bids for the erection of the Temple have been received and
the actual cost is now determined to be $43,672.00. Although the
Committee on Finance takes no less a dim view of the project than last
year. it feels that the policy of restoring the Temple was de.finitely
determined at the last Communication, and therefore. recommends that
an appropriation in the amount of $43.672.00 be approved.

284

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
BENICIA LoDGE No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

5

The request for $5,000.00 for purchase of the old Benicia Lodge has
been referred to this Committee. While the Committee on Finance is
in sympathy with the laudable desire to acquire historical sites and
buildings, it views with alarm the increase in requests for Grand Lodge
funds for such purposes and is frankly afraid to set a precedent in this
respect.
It is the opinion of the Committee that such funds, if approved by
Grand Lodge should come from special assessments to be levied on the
constituent lodges. It also feels that the financial burden on many of
the constituent lodges is already heavy and with indications of a slackening of candidates, applications, the burden may be come heavier in
the future,
The Committee on Finance recommends no appropriation for this
purchase and suggests that this matter be referred to the Committee
on Lodge Financing for further discussion with Benicia Lodge, and that
Benicia Lodge itself give serious consideration to finding ways and
means of acquiring the old temple through its own resources: provided
however, that if after thorough investigation, Benicia Lodge is found
unable to finance the acquisition of the Temple, the Grand Master is
authorized to extend assistance to Benicia Lodge No. 5 for this purpose
in an amount not to exceed $5,000.00, and with the approval of the
Chairman of the Finance Committee, and the Chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financing.
GRAVEL RANGE LODGE No. 59
GEORGETOWN loDGE No. 25

Two years ago an appropriation of $13,000.00 was made to enable
this lodge to rebuild its temple. Of this amount $12,578.00 was utilized.
Your Committee on Finance reported last year that this amount was
being carried on the books of Grand Lodge as an account receivable
under the heading of "owing from Gravel Range Lodge." Also at that
time we reported that it was too early to determine what amount of the
above advance should· be eventually returned by Gravel Range Lodge.
Our investigation of the affairs of this Lodge, with its membership of
66, indicates to us that the Lodge is not at the present time, nor can it
reasonably be expected at any time in the foreseeable future, ever be
in a position to repay any portion of the amount advanced to it by
Grand Lodge. The account in our judgment is uncollectable, and we
recommend that the amount be written off.
Last year the Grand Master reported upon the need of this Lodge
for financial assistance to aid them in the rebuilding of their temple.
The matter was referred jointly to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and the Committee on Finance. Following a conference

285

between the two committees, your Committee on Finance reported that
it was its considered opinion that some method of relief should be
determined upon, it being understood that the final disposition, that is,
whether it is to be an advance or an outright gift, shall be determined
at this session of Grand Lodge. During the past year Georgetown
Lodge has had plans prepared for a building to meet their requirements,
on which they have an estimated cost of approximately $15,000.00 to
build. To their everlasting credit this small group, 62 members, have
raised a sum slightly in excess of $5,000.00 toward the _project. We
recommend that Grand Lodge advance to Georgetown Lodge as needed
and as a gift for the purpose of rebuilding their temple, a sum of not
to exceed $10,000.00.
While we are sympathetic toward both Gravel Range and Georgetown Lodges in the plight in which they find themselves, and are willing
to come to their assistance, still we can not feel that their officers in the
past have followed good business practice. In fact, we feel that they
have been extremely careless in the handling of the business affairs of
their respective Lodges. The fact that fire insurance rates in these
somewhat isolated areas may be high, is no excuse for not carrying
ample fire insurance. The high rate is just another proof of the fact
that the risk is great. In both of these cases the buildings were destroyed by fire. In neither case was there anywhere near ample insurance coverage. Grand Lodge cannot be expected to carry on ·a policy
of assuming the financial burden of rehabilitating Lodges which throqgh
their own carelessness have failed to take the ordinary precautions that
prudent business men should exercise. In view of these developments,
we recommend to all lodges in the Jurisdiction that they make a careful
survey of their insurance coverages, both fire and liability, to determine
whether or not they are amply protected, and if not, that they take steps
to place such additional insurance as may be necessary so that in case
of the loss of their property by fire, they will not be found in the same
unfortunate circumstances as the two lodges heretofore mentioned.
PUBLICATION OP HISTORY

Your Committee on Finance has considered the report of the Committee on the publication of the History of Masonry in California, and
is in accord with the recommendations made by the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes in this connection.
We agree that publication should be undertaken as soon as the
manuscript is ready and the necessary arrangements can be made.
We do not feel. however, that we can recommend any appropriation at this time although we believe that publication should not be
delayed through lack of such appropriation. Any funds which are
used for this project should be returned to a great extent by the sale
of the sets, and if the prepublication orders are accompanied by down

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

payments, part of the expense will be underwriten before publication.
The Committee estimates that two thousand sets in the best binding
will cost $43,200.00, and we believe that not more than two thousand
of the bound sets should be ordered at one time.
It is therefore recommended that the Grand Master by authorized
to proceed with the publication of the History with full authority to
determine the type of paper, binding and other details, provided that
expenditures in connection with the publication be made subject to the
prior approval of the Grand Treasurer and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.

Annual Communication ···--•··-·--..................$ 5,500.00
Audit ................................................................. .
950.00 .
Bonds and Insurance ----------·-·------·--------·---------150.00
Conferences -----·------------------···-------·---·-···--·------·1,500.00
Equipment ....................................................... .
500.00
Grand Lodge officers travel expense............... .
6,500.00
Grand Lodge officers new regalia ....................
4,055.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler................... .
400.00
Grand Treasurer ............................................. .
1,200.00
Grand Master - traveling expenses ..............
7,000.00
Grand Master secretarial & miscell. expense ... .
2,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer's Salary ........................... .
600.00
Inspectors' Aprons and stationery............
1,000.00
Traveling expenses Ritual Committee
and Inspectors ................................. .
6,500.00
Portrait of Grand Master..................................
750.00
Past Grand Masters' Portraits ........................
1,725.00
Printing ............................................................. . 17,500.00
Pay of Members ............................................... . 23,650.00
Ross Digest ......................................................
5,500.00
Relief by Grand Master....................................
2,000.00
Retirement pay ................................................. .
900.00
Miscellaneous ................................................... . 11,000.00
Veterans' Buttons ................................................................................
1,000.00

OFFICE EXPENSES

Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the office expenses for
the past year and has consulted with the Grand Secretary about the
probable expenses for the coming year. We recommend that provision
be made as follows for office expenses with the understanding that the
Masonic Homes of California will pay to the Grand Lodge $4.500.00
for the services of the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary
rendered to the Home.
Salaries ................................................................ $28,000.00
Rent .................................................................... 6,000.00
Postage and Express .......................................... 2,000.00
Telephone and Telegraph .................................. 1,000.00
Supplies and sundry .......................................... 1,000.00
Taxes, Social Security and Unemployment...... 1,000.00
Total. ............................................... $39 ,000.00
GENERAL EXPENSES

In estimating the general expenses of the Grand Lodge for the coming year, your Committee has consulted with the incoming Grand
Master as well as with other Grand Lodge officers. We have included
the additional cost of the monthly audit, and a provision for such conferences as may be called by the Grand Master. We have combined
the Inspectors and Ritual Committee expense, and the travel expenses
for Grand Lodge Officers includes any travel expense by any Grand
Lodge officer traveling in or out of the State at the direction of the
Grand Master. Provision also is made for $750.00 for the portrait of
the incoming Grand Master including suitable frame and also pay..
ments made after the close of the fiscal year for portraits of Past Grand
Masters now hanging in the gallery. It is necessary to provide for a
reprinting of the Ross Digest but the Grand Lodge will be reimbursed
by the sale of the volumes. We recommend that the following items
be included in the budget for the general expenses of the Grand Lodge
for the coming year:

287

TotaL. ..........................;....•............. $101,880.00
MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSE

In. the past only a nominal amount has been set aside in the budget
for miscellaneous expense. However in this centennial year there may
be contingencies which cannot be foreseen now and for which some
provision should be made. Some discussion has been had with the
incoming Grand Master with reference to the issuance of a Grand Lodge
Bulletin. We are not prepared to make any recommendation on this
subject, as it is not before us officially. However, in providing $11,000.00
in th.is miscell~neous account, we have in mind the fact that it may be
considered to issue one or more bulletins during the year and it is left
to the discretion of the incoming Grand Master as to whether or not
this shall be done.
APPROPRIATIONS

Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the reports of the various
boards and committees for the past year, and has considered the re-

288

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

quests of those boards and committees for appropriations to carry on
their work during the coming year. We have discussed the requests
with the members of committees and recommend that the following
appropriations be made.

CENTENNIAL ARRANGEMENTS

In connection with the report of the Committee on Centennial Arpngements, your Committee on Finance presents the foIIowing resolution and moves its adoption:

If the amounts vary from those requested, the change has been made
after consultation with the committee, or if the ~mount requested has
not been in line with the expenditures of the past year.

RESOLVED: First, that a per capita tax of 25c be fixed for the
.&seal year ending July 31, 1950, the proceeds of which shaII be set aside
in the accounts of Grand Lodge to be added to the Centennial Fund.

Activities Committee ······-··-~·-·-··..·······--·:........$ 6,250.00
Board of Control ................................................ 3,236.17
Charter Committee .............................................. 1,250.00
Club House at 'University of California
Berkeley
$18,642.43
Los Angeles 17,470.00 36,112.43
Constitution Month Observance ......................
250.00
Correspondence Committee ..............................
250.00
DeMolay Committee ..........................................
750.00
Employment Service East Bay
$2,500.00
Fresno
266.00
Long Beach
1,838.00
Los Angeles
6,000.00
Sacramento
750.00
San Diego
1,869.00
14,723.00
San Francisco 1,500.00
-Endowment Board ........................................:..... 8,000.00
Georgetown Lodge No. 25.......................•.......... 10,000.00
History Committee .............................................. 4,539.77
Information Committee ...................................... 4,000.00
800.00
Lodge Financing Committee ............................
Public Schools Week ........................................ 1,250.00
Boards of Relief East Bay
$ 40.00
Stockton
138.00
Bakersfield
125.00
303.00
Sotoyome Lodge ···-··-······-·································
600.00
Total...................- .......................$92.314.37

Second, that for purposes of convenience and efficiency, the Committee on Centennial Arrangements be empowered to delegate authority
to approve claims and necessary expenditures, including salaries and
wages, for payment, and that such shall be audited and paid by the
Grand Treasurer in accordance with the existing Grand Lodge procedure.

In addition, you have just appropriated the sum of $43,672.00 for the
purpose of rebuilding the old temple at Columbia and of course this
should be included in the total expenditures for the coming year. Last
year you voted to take this out of the general reserves of the Grand
Lodge. We are following this direction in this report, but we are fl.rmly
of the belief the depleted reserves should be restored as soon as it can
be done conveniently~

289

GEORGE WASHINGTON NATIONAL MASONIC MEMORIAL

In accordance with the actions taken at the 1947 and 1948 Annual
Communications of this Grand Lodge, a fifteen cent per capita tax has
been levied in the past two years for the purpose of bringing our participation in this most worthy project to the level set by the Memorial
~ssociation as being required to complete the edifice in a suitable manner. In its report to the Grand Lodge at the 1947 Annual Communication, the special committee estimated that our quota could be met by a
levy of 15 cents per member per annum in less than ten years.
Your committee recommends that this levy be continued, and therefore offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That a per capita of 15 cents be levied and the proceeds therefrom added to the fund known as the George Washington
National Masonic Memorial Fund, and that said fund or any portion
thereof 'be remitted to said Memorial Association upon the authority
of a Committee composed of the Grand Master, the Grand Treasurer,
and the Chairman of the Finance Committee or as authorized at some
future Communication of the Grand Lodge.
MASONIC HOMES

Your Committee on Finance has carefully reviewed the report of
the Trustees and the audit on the Masonic Homes, and the request of
the Trustees for a $1.00 per capita to be levied for the operation of the
Homes.
The principal source of income for the Homes for the past six years
has been the $25.00 contribution of each initiate. Since 1947 the revenue
from this source has been rapidly dropping, and the estimate of the
Grand Secretary's office is that it will continue to drop. There was a

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

small operating deficit in the year ending July 1, 1948, and a deficit of
$81,000.00 in the last fiscal year. In the coming year the revenue from
the per capita of 50 cents voted last year for the Homes will be availa~le,
and if the operating expenses do not increase, the Homes should Just
about break even. However, the Trustees estimate that the expenses
will be increased between five and ten per cent due to the additional
hospital and dwelling facilities provided in the current building pr.ogram.
In the following year, with the revenue from the $1.00 per capita, the
Homes should be able to cover their expenses and probably return some
of the funds borrowed from the Grand Lodge and other sources.
Your Committee, therefore, concurs in the recommendation of the
Trustees that a per capita of $1.00 be levied for the operation of Masonic
Homes, and offers the following resolution and moves its adoption:
RESOLVED: That a per capita of $1.00 be levied for the operation of the Masonic Homes.

Therefore the only change in the per capita tax is occasioned by the
Increase from fifty cents to one dollar for the benefit of the Masonic
Hames.
In concluding its report, your committee on Finance offers the following resolution; and recommends its adoption:
Resolved that expenditure of $276,865.38 as represented by the
budgeted items and appropriations shown in the foregoing report be
approved.
Respectfully submitted,
CLAUDE H. MORRISON

F. WESLEY DAVIES
ELLSWORTH BARNETT
JOHN W. DAVEY
RAYMOND G. TAYLOR
MILTON J. SEIDEL
HERBERT J. BRONSDON

ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
Due from Lodges .......•.......:.......·-······-···········--$208,584.90
Interest and Dividends -·································· 19,000.00
Miscellaneous Income and Refunds................ 25,000.00

The entire report was adopted.

$252,584.90

Office Expense ··-·······;•············-$ 39,000.00
General Expense ...................... 101,880.00
Appropriation ............................ 92,314 .37

233,194.37

Surp1us...............................- ............... 19,390.53
You will note that the expenditure for Columbia Temple of
$43,672.00 is not included in the regular expense, but when the plan is
carried out it will cause a cash deficit. In view of this fact and the fact
that no provision has been made in the budget for the printing of the
history, your committee is of the opinion that no change should be
made in the per capita tax.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
.
Resolved that a per capita tax of forty-five cents be levied for the
year 1950-51 for the purpose of caring for the expense, of the Grand
Lodge during that year.
Total per capita tax therefore is as follows:
Constitutional provision for Grand Lodge Expense.. $ .50
Special for Grand Lodge Expense........- ..................... .45
Special for George Washington................................ .15
Special for Centennial Celebration.............................. .25
Masonic Homes ·······························'······--·················· 1.00
Total...........................................................$2.35

291

..._

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully proposes legislation
on subjects submitted to it for consideration and recommendation as
follows:
Centennial Arrangements
RESOLVED. that Section 33 of Ross Digest be repealed and that
the following 'be inserted in place thereof, to wit:
"None but members of the Grand Lodge, the Grand officers. Past Grand officers and Representatives of other
Grand Lodges, and the members of the Grand Organist's
choir, shall be present at the opening of the Annual Communication, or during an election therein, provided, however, that Master Masons may be present at the opening
of the 101st Annual Communication in October, 1950.
Master Masons may be present also at the opening of
all special communications.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse
RESOLVED, that Section 159 of the Ordinances be repealed and
the following substituted:
SECTION 159 "A Lodge may expend, in its discretion,
not to exceed 30 per cent of its total revenue for purposes
of refreshments and the promotion of fraternal intercourse. In the discretion of the Lodge, this fund may be
cumulative in an amount not to exceed 20 per cent between
January 1. 1920 and January 1, 1950. and in an amount
not to exceed 30 per cent thereafter."
Adopted by 5/ 6 vote.
Transfer of Membership to New Lodge
RESOLVED. that Section 162-3rd be rescinded and the following
be substituted therefore:
"3rd. By having been a petitioner named in a dispensation for a new lodge as of date of institution: and
Adopted by unanimous vote.
RESOLVED. that Section 175 of the Ordinances be rescinded and
the following be substituted therefore:
SEC. 175. "Upon the granting by the Grand Master of
a dispensation for the formation of a new Lodge the membership of any signer of the petition therefore in any other
Lodge in this jurisdiction, from which he has not already
withdrawn, shall ipso factor cease as of the date of insti-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

293

tution: however, he shall nevertheless be liable for and
shall pay to such Lodge such unpaid dues as may have
accrued between the date of his certificate of standing in
such Lodge and the date of the granting of such dispensation."
Adopted by unanimous vote.
Notice to Elect Commission
RESOLVED. that Section 296 be amended by adding thereto the
following final sentence:
"Said notice shall show that it is issued by order of the
Master and it shall bear the attestation of the Secretary."
Adopted by unanimous vote.
RESOLVED. that Section 297 of the Ordinances be amended by
adding the following:
SECTION 297 The following added after ". . . try a
brother upon a charge of unmasonic conduct.''
K ...............-.. L....- ......,...-.... Master
Attest: G .................. _ H.._................. Secretary
Adopted by unanimous vote.
Number of Members in New Lodge
RESOLVED, that Section 101 of the Ordinances be amended by
substituting for the word "Twelve" the word "Twenty five", and by
substituting for the word "Twenty five" the word "Fifty" so that the
first sentence thereof shall read as follows:
"Upon the petition of 25 and not more than 50 Master
Masons in good standing . . . etc.
Adopted by 5/ 6 vote.
Inspectors Residence
RESOLVED, that Section 53 be amended by striking therefrom
the following:
"and a resident of the District for which he is appointed"
As amended the Section shall read as follows:
SEc. 53 "The Grand Master shall divide the jurisdiction
into Districts, and shall appoint for each district an Inspector, who shall be a Past Master of the jurisdictiorl,
and who shall, before entering upon his duties, produce
a certificate etc.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

294

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

295

Dimits for Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts

Refund of Fees

RESOLVED, that Section 173 of the Ordinances be amended by
inserting between the words, ". . . waiver of jurisdiction." at end of
line 9 and the words, "Charges may ..." at beginning of line 10, the
following:

RESOLVED, that Section 245 of the Ordinances be amended by
deleting the last sentence thereof and inserting in place thereof the
following:

"A Waiver of Jurisdiction can only be granted, and is
effective only, within the jurisdiction of California. If an
Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft has permanently
removed from the jurisdiction of California, his Lodge
may issue to him a dimit in order that he may apply for
advancement in a Lodge in the jurisdiction to which he
has permanently removed."
(See note at end of this report for amendment to the above and
form as adopted. )
RESOLVED. that Section 176 be amended by inserting at the end
thereof the following:
SEc. 176 "An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft who
has permanently removed from the jurisdiction of California, against whom no charges are pending, may withdraw
from his Lodge at any time by giving written notice of
his intention to do so at a stated meeting and he may
receive a dimit."
Adopted by unanimous vote.
RESOLVED, that Section 243 of the Ordinances be amended by
deleting the last sentence thereof and inserting in place thereof the
following:
SEc. 243 "An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft may,
after receiving a waiver of jurisdiction from his Lodge,
apply to another Lodge within this jurisdiction for the
remaining degrees or degree, accompanying it with the
fees required therefor."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
RESOLVED, that Sections 243-A and 243-B of the Ordinances be
repealed.
Adopted by unanimous vote.

SEC. 245 "If the applicant be elected to membership in
another Lodge within or beyond this jurisdiction under a
waiver of jurisdiction, or dimit, issued by his Lodge or die
before receiving the degrees or any of them and the fee
has not been forfeited under the provisions of the by-laws.
the Lodge shall return to the applicant or to the legal
representative of the applicant, as the case may be, the
sum fixed by the by-laws for the degree or degrees not
conferred."
Adopted by 5/6 ~ote.

Refund of Homes Contribution
RESOLVED, that Section 100 of the Ordinances be amended by
deleting the last sentence thereof and inserting in place thereof the
following:
SEC. 100 "If an applicant shall die before being raised
or be elected to membership in another Lodge beyond this
jurisdiction under a dimit issued by his Lodge, or shall be
denied advancement by action of the Lodge, the fact shall
be certified to the Grand Secretary by the Secretary of the
Lodge and the Grand Secretary shall thereupon cause the
contribution of the applicant to be returned to the Lodge,
which sha11 thereupon refund the payment to the widow
or representative of the deceased applicant, or to the applicant himself, as the case may be."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Decisions of the Grand Master
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
decisions of the Grand Master as set forth in his message, and reports
as follows:
Decisions 1 and 2 and the ruling of the Grand Master as to Lodges
that failed to obey Section 251 of Ordinances are manifestly in accordance with our law for the reasons therein stated.
We therefore recommend that these decisions of the Grand Master
be approved.

Dispensations Issued
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year and
also his approval of Resolutions relative to Life Memberships, and
·change of meeting place.
We .find that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of the Jaw. We,
therefore, recommend that the acts of the Grand Master therein be
approved.

Adopted.
Answering inquiry of Crocker Lodge No. 454, the Grand Master's
decision No. 3 defines "total revenue" as used in Sections 159 and 630,
Ross' Digest, to be gross receipts "less operating_ expenses, such as
taxes, insurance, custodian, depreciation, etc." The Grand Master
states that in so doing the decision of the late Grand Master Burnett
( Ross Digest Section 630) is not concurred in.
In light of the divergent facts involved in the two decisions we
believe there is no inconsistency and that both are correct: Grand Master Burnett, dealing with ordinary receipts of a lodge having no revenue
from investments, held that total revenue means "gross revenue";
Crocker Lodge, however, owns income bonds and real estate with a
building, including lodge and banquet rooms, and store rooms rented
for commercial purposes; the real property is incumbered and its maintenance necessarily requires payment of taxes and other expenses including depreciation. Such expenses must, as held by the Grand Master,
be 'deducted from the gross receipts from such investments in determining the total revenue of the lodge, 20% of which may be used for refreshment purposes.
Adopted.
Decision Number Four rendered by the Deputy Grand Master, held
as follows:
1. A Lodge cannot grant a waiver of jurisdiction on an Entered
Apprentice who has been denied advancement therein unless and until
the 'ban against him has been removed by a majority vote of the Lodge
in pursuance of the provisions of Section 220 of Ross Digest.
2. If the ban is removed and the waiver is granted, it is incumbent
upon the Lodge to which the waiver has been granted to make a searching investigation of the applicant in the usual course as prescribed by
Sections 225 and 226 of R.o ss Digest.
The foregoing decision is in accordance with Masonic Law.
Adopted.

297

Adopted.

Membersbii> Information
There has been submitted to your Committee on Jurisprudence for
enactment in our Ordinances as sub-division 12th of Section 202 the
following:
"12th. To certify the Masonic standing of a member of his Lodge
when requested so to do by the Secretary of any body or organization
the prerequisite to membership in which is that the applicant be a Mason
or related to a Mason."
Under the unwritten, and written law of this Grand Lodge, only the
three degrees in Masonry are recognized. The information sought to
be obtained as contemplated by the proposed amendment is available
for the benefit and convenience of the constituent Lodges only and to be
compelJed to divulge it to outsiders would be contrary to traditional
Masonic law. Your committee therefore recommends that the proposed
sub-section to Section 202 of Ordinance be not adopted.
Adopted.
Masonic Funerals
WHEREAS the Most Worshipful Grand Master in his message
recommended a change in our Edicts and Resolutions as set forth in
Sections 64 7 and 648 of the Edicts and Resolutions pertaining to the
conduct of funerals, now, therefore, be it resolved that Sections 647 and
648 of the Edicts and Resolutions be and the same are hereby repealed.
Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Custodian Agreement
RESOLVED, that the Custodian Agreement as proposed by the
Grand Treasurer and submitted by him with his report be approved
as to form.

Record is here made that portions of the reports of the Committees
on Grievances, Polky and General Purposes, Jurisprudence and Finance
were made on days other than herein indicated, and in a different sequence, the complete reports having been compiled as printed for pur..
poses of ready reference.

298

299

Adopted.
JoHN STEWART Ross
OSCAR LAWLER
GEORGE L. JONES
ROBERT B. GAYLORD
EARL WARREN
JOHN w. SHENK
JoHN R. MooRE
CLIFFORD P. GRUA
ALLAN H. F1sH

Dimits for Entered Apprentices and Felfow Crafts
Past Grand Master Warlow moved that the proposed amendment
be amended by deleting therefrom the first sentence.
The Amendment to the Amendment was adopted.
The proposed legislation thus specified that Section 173 of the
Ordinances be amended to read as follows :
"Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts have only the right to sit
in the Lodge in which they received the degree or degrees when open
in a degree taken by them, and the right to advancment therein after
passing satisfactorily a strict examination in open Lodge. They are not
required to pay any dues and are not entitled to vote or spea~ in the
Lodge, nor are they entitled to burial with Masonic honors, nor are
they or their widows or orphans entitled to relief from the funds of the
Lodge. They cannot, acting in a lodge, open in the degree taken, exercise any control over the funds of the Lodge for charity, or for any
other purpose. They cannot withdraw from their Lodge or apply for
membership or advancement in another Lodge without a waiver of
jurisdiction. If an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft has permanently
removed from the jurisdiction of California, his Lodge may issue to him
a dimit in order that he may apply for advancement in a Lodge in the
jurisdiction to which he has permanently removed. Charges may be
preferred against them for offenses committed, which shall be made in
the same manner and tried by a commission of Master Masons elected
as prescribed for trial of individual Masons. If found guilty the same
punishment may be inflicted as is prescribed for trial of individual
Masons, and they may appeal in like manner."
Adopted by unanimous vote.

Brother John Henry Steves, Past Master of St. Helena Lodge No.
93 was escorted to the East by direction of the Grand Master; the latter
called attention to the fact that Brother Steves was now 98 years old
and had completed 68 years of membership in the Fraternity.
The Grand Master invited the Very Worshipful Alfred Lee, Grand
Secretary of the Grand Lodge of China, and Most Worshipful Harry
D. Proudfoot, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge of Oregon, to address Grand Lodge. Each of them complied,
to the great pleasure of the brethren assembled.
At 12:25 P.M. Grand Lodge called off until l :30 P.M.

300

301

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION

Officers of Grand Lodge W ece Elected as Follows:
The R. W. Ellsworth Meyer, Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677, was
elected Grand Master.
The R. W. Arthur Paulsen, Trinity Lodge No. 27, was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Louis C. Drapeau, Poinsettia Lodge No. 633, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The V. W. Arthur M. Warren, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481, was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master, California
Lodge No. 1, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630. was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The W. Walter H. E. VonKonsky, Seaport Lodge No. 550, was
elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Willsie Martin, Hollywood Lodge No. 355.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Delta Lodge No.
471: Elbert W. Davis, Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571: Obed W.
Carr. Porterville Lodge No. 303: Frank Harwell, Jr., Beverly Hills
Lodge No. 528.
Grand Orator, J. Everett Houser, Seaside Lodge No. 504.
Assistant Grand Treasurer: Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco
todge No. 360.
.
Grand Marshal, James W. O'Bryan, Montebello Lodge No. 451.
Grand Standard Bearer. Kent 0. Seymour, Mill Valley Lodge No.
356.
Grand Sword Bearer, Delbert D. Colley. Liberal Arts Lodge No.
677.
Grand Bible Bearer, Ellwood C. Wilder, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
Senior Grand Deacon, Bernard Gilmore, Western Star Lodge No. 2.
Junior Grand Deacon, George H. Olmsted, Tehama Lodge No. 3.
Senior Grand Steward, Clarence A. Trowbridge, Semper Virens
Lodge No. 522.
Junior Grand Steward, J. Howard Edwards, Progressive Lodge No.
578.
Grand Pursuivant, Arthur H. Triggs, Bay View Lodge No. 401.
Grand Organist. Charles E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Alvin A. Horwege, Woodstock Lodge No. 491.
The Grand Secretary announced the re-appointment by the Grand
frtaster-elect of Chas. Albert Adams, P.G.M. and Myron E. Smith as
Trustees of the Masonic Homes.

Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :45 P.M., the Grand Master pre#
siding.
The Grand Master introduced each of those Past Masters of his
own Lodge (Plymouth No. 560) who were present.
The Grand Master introduced Brother Philip N. Streit, Grand
Inspector for the Grand Lodge of Ireland, for China and Hongkong.

Annual Election
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The Grand Master then appointed the following Brethren to serve
as tellers:
Frank Jenkins, Master, Beverly Hills No. 528. ·
Wallace H. Fiske, Master, East Belt No. 391.
Winston E. McPherson, Master, Hawaiian No. 21.
Rayman N. Miller, Master, Pentalpha No. 202.
A. T. Kine, Master, Granada No. 608.
Chas. A. Shepherd, Past Master, Kilauea No. 330.
Otho Stewart, Past Master, Fort Crook, No. 575.
Wilbur J. Scott, Master, Catalina Island No. 524.
G. Warren Clark. Master, Progres de L'Oceanie No. 371.
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master, Marin No. 191.
Hayden W. Benton, Senior Warden, Porterville No. 303.
R. Edward Cleland, Senior Warden, Glassell Park No. 605.
Ogden D. Pinkerton, Master, Schofield No. 443.
J. Edson Lacy, Master, San Fernando No. 343.
Norman H. Buxton, Senior Warden, Maui No. 472.
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master, Occidental No. 22.

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Master~elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
list of Committee appointments. (See General Appendix for complete
list of Committees.)
The Most Worshipful Claude H. Morrison acted as Master of
Ceremonies and the officers elected and appointed were installed by the
Retiring Grand Master in due and ancient form.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecessor with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the retiring
to the incumbent Grand Master, and the other chair officers exchanged
the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The Chester H. Warlow Grand Lecturer's insignia was presented
to the new Grand Lecturer by his predecessor.
On behalf of Mrs. Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master Whitsell
presented to the Grand Master a gavel made for the purpose from the
wood of an olive tree which grew on the historic site of the Battle of
Marathon.
William B. Pettus, donor of the Pettus Bible, presented to Grand
Lodge a volume of "Square in Chinese Literature" by Gillis and a
booklet, "Fine Art of Reviling," translation by Wm. B. Pettus.
The Grand Master presented to Grand Lodge as a group, the
officers and members of his own Lodge, Liberal Arts No. 677, who were
in attendance at the installation.
The Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master,
invested the retiring Grand Master with the apron of a Past Grand
Master. The Most Worshipful John R. Moc;>re, Past Grand Master,
on behalf of the members of Grand Lodge, presented a gift to Mrs.
Edward H. Siems, and it was accepted by the retiring Grand Master
in her behalf.
At 5:45 P.M., all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

303

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities........................ 304-305
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements .... 306-307
Grand Lodge Budget 1.949-1950..................................................____ .,....308
financial Report-Grand Lodge:
Grand Lodge Audit......................................................................•.309
Grand Lodge Funds................................................................310-316
Audit of 1949 Returns.............................................................•..... .31 7
Financial Report-Endowment Fund:
Auditor's Report ··················-··········-··-----·-·-~'-··-·····: .. ,•..- ...•...•...••3! 8
Grand Treasurer's Report ......................................................319-323
Financial Report-Masonic Homes:
Auditor's Report ·······-·····--···-····-······-·-·······-··················:···········-···•..JZll
Cash Receipts and Disbursements................................................ -328
Balance Sheet ········-····-················--·----·-·····-··-··················-·····~---.3'11
Statement of Revenue and Expenses·-·-··············--··················-···330
Securities Owned ··-···-··········-··········--····-·····-··-············-·······-······...••••
Statistical:
Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund .................... 343
Details of Masonic Homes ..............................................................356
Annual Returns 1948 .................................................................-ilf

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE F. &
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OWNED OR UNDER CONTROL OF
ASSETS

Total

Cash:
Custody of Grand Treasurer..............................·-········
Operating funds ................................................................
Revolving funds .............................•...................................
Deposits in transit ·······-···········-························-···---·····

$ 166,105.25
35,497.03
2,500.00
2,036.37

Total cash ····························································-·······

206,138.65

Accounts Receivable:
Inter-funds ·································································--··-·
Lodges and others .............................................................
Total accounts receivable .......................................
Investments:
Bonds ·······················-············································-····-········
Stocks ·················································-·····················-········ ·Notes and contracts receivable ..............,................_____
Insurance policies ···············-·············································
Real estate ···························································-·········-···
Others ······-···························-······-······················-·····-····-~

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
GRAND LODGE - JULY 31, 1949
Endowment and
Luckenbach
Funds

Grand Lodge
_(Exhibit A)

$

MASONIC HOMES
General
Spedaland
Fund
Trust Funds

(Exhibit A)

83,083.37
10,000.00
500.00

$

Exhibit A A

{Exhibit A)

32,095.97

$

26,381.10
19,989.72
2,000.00
2,036.37

(Schedules 2-12)

$

24,544.81
5,507.31

93,583.37

32,095.97

50,407.19

30,052.12

17,949.98

28,000.00
16,428.00

(438.92)

(27,670.81)
1,521.98

109.73

17,949.98

44,428.00

(438.92)

(26,148.83)

109.73

4,785,154.87
558,011.18
23,345.52
8,941.75
8,325.00
802.00

604,512.50
339,850.00

3,472,290.51
109,732.33
5,628.13
14.00

214,963.13

493,388.73
108,428.85
17,717.39
8,927.75
5,625.00
800.00

5,384,580.32

944,362.50

Properties: (At Cost)
Land, buildings and equipment Decato and Covina ···················································-···

2,744,974.44

Inventory of Stores and Supplies......................................

16,360.63
$8,370,004.02

Total assets ·················································-············LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities:
Funds held for special purposes ···································- $ 231,588.49
George Washington Masonic National
__ 1
lliill
Memorial Fund ··········-·············-····································
9,932.45
Due Lodges and others ·······················-····························
172.00
Total liabilities ...........................................•..............

305

-----

2,700.00

2.00
3,587,666.97

217,663.13

634,887.72

2,744,974.44
16,360.63
$1,082,373.87

$3,619,324.02

$ 203,630.96

.

$3,003,256.56

$

$ 665,049.57

27,957.53

9,932.45
$

170.00

2.00

241,692.94

213,563.41

170.00

27,959.53

Capital ·······································································-··········-·

8,128,311.08

868,810.46

3,619,154.02

2,975,297.03

$ 665,049.57

Total liabilities and capital ························-···········

$8,370,004.02

$1,082,373.87

$3,619,324.02

$3,003,256.56

$ 665,049.57

308

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

BUDGET FOR 1949-1950
Following is the estimate of your committee on the costs of maintaining Grand Lodge and its various activities for the coming year.
Office Expense
Salaries ·························································-························· $28,000.00
Rent ···-···············-·--··························································· 6,000.00
Postage & Express...-----······················································· 2,000.00
Telephone & Telegraph....................................................:..: 1,000.00
Supplies & Sundry·--·····-··-········-··-····-········-················· 1,000.00
Taxes, Social Security and Unemployment.................... 1,000.00 $ 39,000.00
General Expenses
Annual Communication ·············-·-····································· $ 5,500.00
Audit -------··--················-·······································
950.00
Bonds & Insurance................................................................
150.00
Conferences -····-··········-············································-········· 1,500.00
Equipment ········-·-··-········--··········-·····································
500.00
Grand Lodge Officers Travel EJq>ense............................ 6,500.00
Grand Lodge Officers New Regalia................................ 4,055.00
Grand Organist and Tiler....................................................
400.00
Grand Treasurer ·····'·····-················-··································· 1,200.00
Grand Master, Traveling Expense..........·-······················· 7,000.00
Grand Master, Secretarial & Miscellaneous.................. 2,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer's Salary...........................................---···
Inspectors Aprons & Stationery.................................... 1,000.00
Traveling Expenses, Ritual Committee
and Inspectors ···--·--······-·········-·······-·················-- 6,500.00
750.00
Portrait of Grand Master..·-···- ···············--········-··-·····
Past Grand Master's Portraits......................................... 1,725.00
Printing .
-·-------·-···-········································ 17,500.00
Pay of Members................................................................ 23,650.00
Ross Digest ··-····--····················································· 5,500.00
Relief of Grand Master.................................................... 2,000.00
900.00
Retirement Pay ···········-······································-···········
Miscellaneous -····························································-·-· 11,000.00
Veterans' Buttons ···············································-··········· 1,000.00 $101,880.00
Appropriations
Activities Committee ··············-······-··························-···- $ 6,250.00
Board of Control.----·······-·····-·········································· 3,236.17
Charters Committee ............................................................ 1,250.00
University Clubhouses ···-····························-················-··· 36,112.43
Constitution Month Observance.....................................-.
250.00
Correspondence Committee ..............................................
250.00
De Molay Committee ····-··············································-···
750.00
Employment Bureaus ............................•............................. 14,723.00
Endowment Board ···-···-······················································ 8,000.00
Georgetown Lodge No. 25.................................................... 10,000.00
History Committee ········-··················································· 4,539. 77
Information Committee ...................................................... 4,000.00
Lodge Finance Committee................................._.................
800.00
Public Schools Week............................................................ 1,250.00
Boards of Beliet..---·-···-···················································
303.00
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123...---·······································-·····
600.00
Columbia Temple Restoration.......................................... 43,672.00 $135,986.37
Grand Total..·-····-··-····-·····-·····-············-··-··---······· $276,866.37

309

I

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
September 30, 1949
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
.
We have audited the books of account and records of the· Grand Lodge
F. & A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1949 and present
herewith the following statements:
Consolidated Statements
Exhibit AA: Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities, Owned or
Under Control of Grand Lodge, July 31, 1949.
Exhibit BB: Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements,
from Fund of or Controlled by Grand Lodge, August 1, 1948 to July 31, 1949.
Grand Lodge
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets and Liabilities, July 31 ,1949.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
1948 to July 31, 1949.
Exhibit C. Grand Treasurer's Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1948 to July 31, 1949.
Exhibit D: Grand Secretaqr's Resume of Cash Received.
Schedule 1: List of Securities, July 31 ,1949.
Schedule 2: Statement of Grand Lodge Per-Capita Dues Collected from
1948 Annual Returns.
Schedule 3: Statement of Masonic Homes $25.00 Contributions Received
During the Year 1948-49.
Schedule 4: Comparison of Budget and Expenditures, 1948-49.
Comments
The revenue from per capita dues and other sources exceeded the expenses and appropriations by $2,105.92 as shown by Exhibit D.
All per capita dues, as reported on the 1948 annual returns from constituent Lodges, have been paid in full. Our Schedules 2 and 3 show proof
of the revenue due from the Lodges in accordance with their 1948 returns
and the $25.00 Homes contribution reports for the first three quarters of the
fiscal year 1948-49. The total revenue due, as shown, agrees with the total
cash received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary.
Cash receipts were accounted for and deposited in the proper banks.
disbursements were made by check and supported by properly approved
vouchers. The disbursements made by the Grand Secretary were from his
Operating Funk bank account. Reimbursements to the Operating Fund by
the Grand Treasurer were not made until we had audited and approved
the bills, which was done semi-monthly. No bill was approved unless an
appropriation had been made in the budget and the appropriation had not
been used up. Items not covered by the budget and expenditures in excess
of budget were not reimbursed until approved by the Grand Master.
Bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
A certified list of the securities was received from the Anglo California
National Bank which holds the securities for safekeeping. All interest and
dividends due were received.
The former War Relief Fund, in amount 158,507.44, has been transferred
to a Special Purpose Fund to be held for the use of the Memorial Temple
Committee, in accordance with the recommendation adopted at the 1948
communication of Grand Lodge.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 has fulfilled its agreement during the year;
$150.00 monthly was paid by Grand Lodge and $100.00 monthly was received
by Grand Lodge from the Lodge. No payments were received on the money
advanced to Gravel Range Lodge No. 59.
We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements present fairly
the financial condition of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California as at
July 31, 1949 and the result of its activities for the fiscal year 1948-49.
·
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS, PARKER, CARSON & HARMS
Certified Public Accountants
·
Walter A. Parker.

310

311

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Exhibit A

Exhibit B

Statement of Assets and Liabilities

Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements

July 31. 1949

August 1. 1948 to July 31. 1949

Assets:
Cash in Banks:
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts (Exhibit C) .... $
Grand Secretary's bank account. .............................

Accounts Receivable:
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123..........·-····--·····················-·-·
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59..................................... .
Masonic Homes of California................................... .

Cash Balance, August 1, 1948:
83,083.37
10,500.00 $

-----

Investments: (Schedule 1)
Bonds ............................................................................
Stock in Masonic Temple Ass'n. of California... .

~~ci~~l lu':i1dd ..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: $

2,926.45
7,006.00

Funds held for Special Purposes:
Centennial Celebration ............... .
Memorial Temple Committee..... .

45,123.52
158,507.44

----Total liabilities ..................... .

3,850.00
12,578.00
28,000.00

44,428.00

604,512.50
339,850.00

944,362.50

9,932.45

203,630.96
213,563.41
$ 868,810.46

Net assets ............................
Capital:
Balance August 1, 1948
Add: Excess of revenue over expenses: (Exhibit B)
By Grand Secretary..................
By Grand Treasurer..................

Less: Expenditures and appropriations ·····-······-··········-········-·············
Contributions to Scottish Masonic Benevolence Centenary
Fund ..............................................

Received by Grand Secretary
Dues from Lodges, 1948 annual returns
(Schedule 2) ···················-····························--·············
Dues from Lodges for prior years................................
Charters and dispensations............................................
Sales of supplies..............................................................
Collections for Lodge officers' surety bonds ............
Refund of Grand Master's travel expense--P.G.M.
Warlow ......................................................................... .
Refund of Grand Master's stenographic expense-P.G.M. Warlow ............................................................

2,776.38
229.14
213,413.65

Refunds:
Expenses paid (see disbursements) ....................... .
Grand Lodge of Illinois..............................................

5,127.38
64.01

Per capita dues for special purposes:
Centennial Celebration ........................................... .
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Initiates' contributions to George Washington Masonic National Memorial Fund................... _.......... .
1?ayments from Sotoyome Lodge No. 123.. ·-·············

45,260.00
27,156.00

233,165.08

231,059.16

Excess revenue ............................

2,105.92

Total ········-······-··················r·····
Deduct: Transfer to Memorial Temple Committee of old War Relief
Fund from General Fund.................

1,027,317.90

Balance July 31, 1949..·-··········-··-·······

$ 868,810.46

158,507.44

10,170.00
1,200.00

-----

Received by Grand Treasurer
Bank Interest ................................................................. .
Bond Interest ..................................................................
Interest accrued on "F" bonds............................•.......
Dividends ·········-············-·················································

230,059.16
1,000.00

187,665.00
678.05
695.00
19,193.20
2,176.88

Total revenue receipts·-············-····················

Total cash received by Grand Secretary....

213,413.65
19,751.43

95,143.92

93,583.37

Total assets ·····································································-··-····· $1,082,373.87
Liabilities:
Due George Washington Masonic
National Memorial Fund:
Per capita levy................................ $
Initiates' contributions ................

67,823.98
27,319.94 $

302,391.04

328.68
12,165.00
2,160.00
5,097.75

Total revenue received by Grand Treasurer

19,751.43

Total to account for...·-··-···-··-··--··-···

417,286.39

Disbursements
By Grand Secretary (Exhibit B page 3)·-····-··-·······
By Grand Treasurer (Exhibit B page 3)....·-·:······--

128,927.31
194,775.71

323,703.02

Cash Balance, July 31, 1949:
Grand Secretary's bank accounts............................
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts............................ $

10,500.00
83,083.37

93,583.37

312

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

- - Disbursed b y - Grand
Grand
Treasurer Secretary
Disbursements:
Grand Secretary's office expense:
Salaries -········-·····································
Rent ···················-·································
Postage and express.......................... $
Telephone and telegraph..................
Supplies and sundry expense..........
Total office expense..·-·················
Grand Lodge office equipment..........
Grand Lodge office alterations............
Printing ·········-········-·······························
Supplies for resale....·-···-······················
Lodge officers surety bond
premiums ···-·······································
Refund to Lodges of dues for prior
years ···-········-··························-·····-··
Charter fees returned................----··-···
Relief-order of the Grand Master....
Pay of representatives to Grand
Lodge ....................................................
Activities Committee ..........................
Annual communication ·····-···············
Application Committee ........................
Board of Control ····--·-·························
Charters Committee ..............................
Columbia Temple Committee ···-·······
Constitution Month Committee..........
Correspondence Committee ................
De Molay Committee ·····················-·····
EndoV(Inent Board ................................
George Washington Memorial
Committee ·········-·······························
History Committee ···-··-··················-···
Jurisdiction Committee ........................
Lodge Finance Committee ..•...............
Masonic Information Committee ......
Public Schools Week Committee........
Ritual Committee ···-·····························
Conferences and conventions ..............
Grand Lecturer's salary ......................
Grand Lodge Bulletin ·····-······-···········
Grand Lodge Officers' expenses..........
Grand Lodge Officers' Regalia............
Assistant Grand Lecturer's Official
Regalia ·····-··-····-···-·-··········-··--·······
Grand Master's stenographic
expense .:·-··············-······················-···
Grand Master's traveling expelllle......
Grand Master's present ........................
Grand Secretaries' Conference
expense ·············-····-········-·················
Grand Treasurer's expense ..................
Grand Tiler and Grand Organist........
Inspectors' aprons and stationery......
Inspectors' traveling expense ............
Past Grand Masters' portraits..............
Past Grand Masters' Portrait
frames ···-··-······-·-·······························

$
358.58

974.17
4,894.05
5,108.47
17,515.66

35,696.68
974.17
4,894.05
14,611.58
17,515.66

1,448.75

1,448.75

158.60
100.00
1,381.28

158.60
100.00
1,616.28

205.52
4,814.90
5,656.39
161.85
1,685.02
646.03
291.10
39.57
42.66
532.24
3,298.36

22,830.04
4,814.90
5,656.39
161.85
1,685.02
646.03
291.10
39.57
42.66
532.24
5,922.66

144.65
7,596.01
12.74
559.06
703.50
733.69
2,669.88
2,038.99
600.00
1,602.98
4,782.36
433.10

144.65
7,596.01
12.74
559.06
703.50
733.69
2,669.88
2,038.99
600.00
1,602.98
4,782.36
433.10

566.50

566.50

$
9,503.11

235.00
22,624.52

2,624.30

1,500.00
7,000.00
300.00

1,500.00
7,000.00
300.00

400.00

961.01
3,388.54
3,575.00

350.00
1,116.05
400.00
961.01
3,388.54
3,575.00

425.16

425.16

350.00
1,116.05

--Disbursed by - Grand
Grand
Treasurer Secretary

Total

27,040.50
5,100.00
1,211.19
1,063.61
922.80

313

Podiums, platforms and cleaning
portraits ·····-··-··-······-·······················
Employment Bureaus ·············-···········
Masonic Club Houses ............................
50-year ·buttons ·····-·······························
Audit -············-······················-····-······-···
Boards of Relief-reimbursement......
Bonds and insurance premiums..·-·····
Pension-Marian Van Buskirk............
Monthly audit ·································-·····
Taxes--Social Security and Unemployment ···········································-·
Plaque for Western Star Lodge No. 2
Miscellaneous ···--························-·········

1,948.41

Total

122.00
900.00
480.00

1,948.41
13,695.00
49,571.20
952.40
250.00
145.00
122.00
900.00
480.00

605.64
149.65
142.41

605.64
149.65
142.41

13,695.00
49,571.20
952.40
250.00
145.00

Total disbursed for expenses.... $ 108,206.71 $ 121,852.45 $ 230,059.16
Expenses refunded: (see receipts)
Masonic Homes salaries ···········-·····
Activities Committee .......................:
Office furniture ..................................
Grand Lodge of New York................
50-year buttons ·······················-······-·
Sundry expense ..................................

$

Total expenses refunded ..........

4,500.00 $
195.85
102.50
43.56
20.00
265.47

4,500.00
195.85
102.50
43.56
20.00
265.47

5,127.38

5,127.38

1,800.00

1,800.00

136.48

136.48

11.00

11.00

Disbursements to be refunded:
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123..·-········-···
Centennial Arrangements
Committee ······-·-··-················-····-···
Refund to Lodges of George Washington Memorial per capita for
prior years ·············-········-·················
Increase in redemption value of "F"
bonds transferred to interest
income ···········································-·····
George Washington Masonic National Memorial:
Initiates' contributions ....................
Per capita ···-- ······-····-·······················
Loan to Masonic Homes ···········-·········

2,160.00

2,160.00

6,409.00
50,000.00
28,000.00

6,409.00
50,000.00
28,000.00

Total disbursements .................. $ 194,775.71 $ 128,927.31 $ 323,703.02
Postage and express•.....·-··················· $

358.58

1,211.19

314

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Exhibit C
Grand Treasurer's
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1, 1948 to July 31, 1949
84,707.93

Cash Balance, August 1, 1948....·-··-··············- ······--··························· $

Fro~fu~PJ~~nd Secretary........·- ······························-· $ 302,327.0~
Interest and dividends.---···········- - ··········-··········- ·········

19,751.4

322,078.46

Total receipts ···--··-··-- ·········································
Total to account for-·- ············-··············-·······
Disbursements:
.
Reimbursing Grand Secretary's operati?~ fund......
Grand Treasurer's disbursements (Exhibit B)........

$ 406,786.39
128,927.31
194,775.71
323,703.02

Total disbursements ···················-······- ····" .......
Cash Balance. July 31. 1949:
Crocker First National Bank........·-·························
American Trust Company -·-·-··-···························Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co.
Anglo Californ}a National Banlt..............................
Bank of America ·····-··-········-··································· $

35,089.90
50.00
7,251.95
38,409.08
2,282.44 $

-----

83,083.37 .

Exhibit D
Grand Secretary's Resume of Cash Received
August 1. 1948 to July 31. 1949
For
Grand
. . B).............................. $ 302,391 ·04
Per
capitaLodge:
dues, etc. (Exhibit
Less refund of trial expense paid from operating Fund not reimbursed by Grand Treasurer, deposited in Operating Fund.................. _ _ _6_4_.0_1

,

315

Schedule 2
Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected
From 1948 Annual Returns
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1949
Per Capita
Degrees Conferred:
Number
Dues
Amount
Initiated ..............................................
10,871
Passed ..................................................
11,211
Raised ····- ···-·····'··························- ·····
11,699
Total ···- ··········-···························
33,781
@ $1.00 $ 33,781.00
:Master Masons:
Membership ......................................
183,198
Deduct, dues remitted ....................
2,148
Net ................................................
181,040
@
$1.00 $ 181,040.00
Total Grand Lodge dues as per annual returns of 1948........ $ 214,821.00
Disposition of Revenue
Grand Lodge .................................................................... $ 187,665.00
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Fund, 181,040 members @ 15c............................... _.
27,156.00
Total as above ....................................................
$ 214,821.00
Schedule 3
Statement of Masonic Homes $25 Contributions
Received during the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949
Amount due per 1948 annual returns:
Per Capita
Number
Dues
Amount

~\i~!~~:s ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: $

10

'~~~

E. A. and F. C•·--·····•··-··- .·-·········29
Total ···············-···························
11,762
@ $25.00 $ 294,050.00
Deduct, payments received in advance of annual reported in
1948 proceedings .................................................................................. $ 211,100.00

Balance transferred to Grand Treasurer....
For Masonic Homes:
$25.00 contributions - ···-·············································
For Endowment Fund:
Contributio:p.s and bequests ·············-·····················

302,327.03

Total cash transferred to Grand Treasurer........

$ 797,739.06

270,125.00
225,287.03

Schedule 1
List of Investments
July 31. 1949

cost
9' 565 ·00
Bonds:
. Compa~y, 41h%, 1981.......................... $
$ 10,000 Southern Pacific
00
135,000 U. S .Savings Bonds, series F, 1957...............---·- ······- ···
102,600. 0
Increase in redemption value of F Bonds...·-·············---···
2,160.0
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, ser~es G, 21h%, 1953......................
10,000.00
40,000 U. s. Savings Bonds, ser~es G, 21h %, 1958...................-.
40,000.og
30 000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959....·- ···············
30,000.0
90,000.00
90'000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1960......................
214:000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21/4 % , 1959-62................................
i56·,~i~:gg
100 000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1964-69...................:············
6:000 u. s . Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1965-70................................ _ _6_,_oo_o_.o_o
Total ·b onds ---·-·-·-·-·········- ········-··-··············-··-···-·-····· $ 604,512.50
Stocks:
, of Califomia..................
·
339'850·00
33,985 shares Masonic Temple Assn.
Total securities in custody of Grand Treasurer................ $ 944,362.50

Balance received with returns in current year..................................
82,950.00
Add, .p ayments received in advance of 1949 retur ns........................
187,175.00
Total contributions received...................................................... $ 270,125.00
Total cash received by the Grand Secretary and turned over
to the Grand Treasurer........................................................................ $ 270,125.00
Schedule 4
Comparison of Budget and Expenditures
1948-49
. . .
.
Appropriation Expended Under
Over
ActiVIties Committee .................. $ 5,000.00 $ 4,814.90 $ 185.10
Annual Communication ..............
5,500.00
5,656.39
$ 156.39
Audit ·······································-·······
250.00
250.00
185.02
Board of Control ·········-···············
1,500.00
1,685.02
22.00
Bonds and Insurance ·············-···
100.00
122.00
Charters Committee ....................
1,000.00
646.03
353.97
Columbia Temple Restoration.. 38,204.00
291.10 37,912.90
Constitution Month ....................
500.00
39.57
460.43
Correspondence Committee ......
250.00
42.66
207.34
De Molay Committee ..................
750.00
532.24
217.76
Employment Bureaus ................ 13,695.00 13,695.00
Endowment Board ......................
8,000.00
5,922.66 2,077.34
General Offices of Grand Lodge
5,000.00
4,894.05
105.95
George Washington Memorial
Committee ..................................
1,000.00
144.65
885.35
Grand Lodge Officers' Expense
5,000.00
217.64
4,782.36
Grand Lodge Officers' Regalia..
3,640.00
433.10 3,206.90

317

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Appropriation Expended
Asst. Grand Lecturers' Official
Regalia ------·············-·-·-----·-··-···
Grand Master's relief ..................
Grand Master's stenographic
expense -----····---·-····-············
Grand Master's traveling
expense ····--·--·-----·-·--·····-··-··Grand Organist & Grand Tiler..
Grand Secretaries' Conference..
Grand Treasurer's expense ........
History Committee ···-·----·-··----···
Information Committee ..............
Inspector's aprons and
stationery ···--------··-····-··········
Inspector's expense ·········-···········
Lodge Finance Committee ..........
Office equipment --··--·-·········-·····
Office supplies and sundries........
P . G. M. portraits--···-·······-···········
Pay of members ·····-···--·-·············
Podiums, platforms and cleaning portraits ..............................
Postage and express ··········-··-·····
Printing --- -·-·-·--·-·---·--····-··-·······
Public Schols Week ......................
Relief Boards-reimbursements
Rent ···------···-······--······-P·····-···--··
Retirement-Marian Van
Buskirk ····-··-···-········-·············
Ritual Committee expense ........
Salaries (including Grand
Lecturer) ·························-········Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ·····--·--·
Taxes-social Security and
Unemployment ·····-·················-·
Telephone and telegraph ............
University Club Houses ..............
Veterans' buttons ..........................
Miscellaneous ···················-·········-Application Committee ................
Conferences and conventions......
Grand Lodge Bulletin ..................
Grand Master's present ·········-···
Jurisdiction Committee ···-····--··
Monthly audit ····-·-········-···-··Plaque for Western Star
Lodge No. 2 ----···--·---·-·-·······

Under

566.50
2,000.00

566.50
1,616.28

1,500.00

1,500.00

7,000.00
400.00
350.00
1,200.00
8,819.72
5,500.00

7,000.00
400.00
350.00
1,116.05
7,596.01
703.50

83.95
1,250.71
4,769.50

1,000.00
3,500.00
600.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
5,200.00
22,850.00

961.01
3,388.54
559.06
974.17
922.80
4,000.16
22,830.04

38.99
111.46
40.94
25.83
77.20
1,199.84
19.96

AUDIT OF 1949 RETURNS
Gentlemen:
An audit of the current 1949 annual returns from constitutent Lodges
up to and incl~ding October 7, 1949 has been made.
'
As determined from the returns, the following amount as collectible:
Grand Lodge:
Degrees conferred .............................. 29,812 @ $1.00 $29,812.00
Per Capita:
1949 membership -·----·--···---·--···----······· 190,543
Less, dues remitted..............................
2,361

-----

Net -····--···-··---·················-········---········· 188,182 @ $1.35

254,045.70

5.25

1,948.41
1,569.77
14,611.58
733.69
145.00
5,100.00

1,500.00

900.00
3,500.00

900.00
2,669.88

830.12

28,600.00
600.00

27,640.50
600.00

959.50

1,000.00
1,000.00
49,571.20
1,200.00
1,000.00

605.64
1,063.61
49,571.20
952.40
142.41
161.85
2,038.99
1,602.98
300.00
12.74
480.00

394.36

Total appropriated by
Grand Lodge ·········-··········· $266,184.58
Authorized by Grand
Master• ···················-···········
5,178.48

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California,
San Francisco, California

383.72

1,943.16
2,000.00
15,000.00
1,250.00
145.00
6,600.00

149.65

October 8, 1949

Over

430.23
388.42
516.31

247.60
857.59

Total due -·-·-·······-·······························-·······-······-··············-···· 283 857 70
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer....................$283:ss1:10
Masonic Homes:
Fourth Quarter 1949, $25.00 Contributions
p
er apita, 188, l 82 members---·---·---------------------···------@ .50

c

--·--··----·--···--·---- 80,625.00
94.091.00

Total Due ---··-··-··-·················-----·--------·------------··-----·--···-·····-·- 174,716.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer..----------------· 174,716.00
63.61

161.85
2,038.99
1,602.98
300.00
12.74
480.00
149.65

'

George Washington Memorial Endowment Contributions:
Fourth Quarter 1949, $1.00 Contributions..........................

2.964.00

Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.......................................

2,964.00

All returns have been received and paid in full in ·accordance with
the amount shown by the returns as computed.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS, PARKER, CARSON & HARMS

$5,178.48•

• Note: Items not covered by the budget and expeditures in excess of amount
in budget were not paid until approved by the Grand Master.

Certified Public Accountants

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund Audit
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California
September 28, 1949
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1949 and present herewith the
following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets, July 31, 1949.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1948
to July 31, 1949.
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, July 31, 1949.
Exhibit D: Statement of Income and Capital Accounts for the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1949.
Schedule 1: Securities on hand, acquired prior to July 31, 1948.
Schedule 2: Securities received and purchased during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1949.
Schedule 3: Statement of securities redeemed and sold during the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1949.
Cash:
COMMENTS
The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
All interest and dividends due from investments and savings bank accounts
were received by the Grand Treasurer and deposited in the bank accounts
of the Masonic Homes. The total income received by the Homes from the
Endowment Funds amounted to $85,995.31.
Securities:
Securities on hand that were acquired in prior years are listed on Schedule .
1. Securities received through contributions and bequests, and bonds purchased during the current year are listed on Schedule 2. Securities redeemed
and sold during the current year are listed on Schedule 3.
Bonds purchased are listed at actual cost. Donated securities are listed at
market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the actual value
is unknown.
Certified lists of securities held for the account of the Endowment Fund
were received from the Anglo California National Bank. The records were
checked to these lists and the securities not listed were found in the office
of the Grand Secretary and were inspected by us.
Increase in Fund:
The combined assets of the Endowment Fund and the Luckenbach Fund
show the following increase for the current year:
Amount of funds, July 31, 1949..·-····-···········································$3,619,154.02
Amount of funds, July 31, 1948..·-··························-······-············· 3,390,643.35
Increase ·················································································-··-··-$ 228,510.67
The increase is accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests....·-···-······--········-······-·-····-··--···$ 225,287.03
Securities by donation and bequest..........................·--···-··-··-···
4,152.00
Loss on sale of securities.....................-··········-········-··-····-··--·····
(928.36)
Increase ..........................................................................................$ 228,510.67
The donations received through Lodges were confirmed by correspondence
with the individual Lodges as at June 15, 1949.
Other Endowment Assets:
The books of the Masonic Homes carry the records of the Harriet C.
Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund. After the death of the beneficiaries
of this fund, the remainder will be transferred to the Endowment Fund.
Schedule 7 of the Masonic Homes report shows that this fund had a balance
of $22,608.76 as at July 31, 1949.
The Masonic Homes also hold several pieces of real estate for the account
of the Endowment Fund. Whenever a sale is made, the proceeds will be
deposited to the account of the Endowment Fund.
Certificate:
We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements present fairly
the financial condition of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund as at July
31, 1949.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS, PARK.ER, CARSON & HARMS
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT-ENDOWMENT FUND

Endowment Fund:
Cash in savings account:

Exhibit A
Statement of Assets
July 31. 1949

S~~~fe~al~o~~ ~!l~:al Bank....·-··-···-··-·····-·······--·-·········· $ 32,038.73
(For detail refer to Schedule 1 and 2
Bonds ·············-··································..:····-··········..·····:.$3,4-19,lal 8t

~~~~anooWi··:::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::: 9:~::

D~°iJ~.· ;~~;n,:~-£~;-~orti.~atio;;·············--······-·····•3,624,027.44
of bond premiums..................................................

2,556.72

Net book value of securities................................

3,521,470.72
3,553,509.45

No. 645 for overpayment of contributions........
NLet EndLowmkent Fund assets............................
John and ena uc enbach Fund·
(For details refer to Exhibit C) ·
cas:c:i:k~ings account...................--.........................

170.00
$3,553,339.45

DedJ~~h!~fil~Y···ic;··A.'F::E:··~;:iD··LOd~~-···········

..............................................................................................................

57.24
66,196.25

D~°i:;f, ~;;c;~f..ciii~·"tc;·Ma.io~1~·1ic;in;;s:::::::::::::::

66,263.49
438.92

Total Luckenbach Fund assets............................
Grand Total Endowment Fund Assets..........................

65,814.57
$3,619,154.02

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
(Not Including 'Luckenbach Fund"-Exhibit C)
Augusi 1. 1948 io July 31. 1949
Cash inRbru:ks, August 1, 1948..•- ..·-···-··-···-··-··-····-················--······· $136,835.78
ece1pts:
From the Grand Secretary:
Donations through Lodges..........................$191,319.68
D onatio!ls f:om individuals and
M orga~izatlons .--·······-··--······························· 2,051.40
emorial donations ···············-·····················
148.50
Bequests ····················-···-······························· 31,767.45 $225,287.03
Securities sold and redeemed
(Schedule 3):
Bonds ···-····-··-··············-····-··-··················· 5,016.13
~tocks ·············-··········································· 1,013.65
otes receivable .....................................
424.12
Building and Loan Association...........::: 5,169.82 11,623.72
From Masonic Homes for annual
amAortization o~ bond premiums...·--··-··----··-··--- ·····
887 .15
ccounts receivable-Los Angeles

~~~::e~f ·b~ ~.E.ciriM;..LO.dg~·Nc;:·545:::::::::::::::::
0

i~g:gg

Total receipts·········-········-·············-······························-······-······· $238,867.90
Total to account for..·-····-··-··-············--············---·-··-····· 375,703.68

321

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

320

Schedule 1
Disbursements:
$340 207 91
Bonds purchased (Schedule 2) ..·-····························-·········
• ·
Payment to Masonic Homes for interes on
3 363 68
securities which was added to redemptio.n value......
' 3" 36
Transfer of collection for account of Masonic Homes.:..
9 ·
664 95
Total disbursements ·········-···-······-··············-··················-··········· 343,
·

c~g~1~ac~~!~~'W~tfo':i1li R~~---·······-··-····-··-··-······-··-··-····· $ 32,038.73
Exhibit C
..
Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
July 31. 1949
Cash in Savings Account:
$
Anglo California National Bank.----············-········-···-·············-·······
Securities:
Bo$isooo Northern Pacific Railway Co.,
General Lien, 3%, 2047 ....- ....................... $
'
16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F 1957•.------·-·---·-····$ 11,988.00
Incre~sed redemption value....
437 .40
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%,
5 ··5a;hi:g;··Bond~;···5;;1~~···G;--2~·3·;
35,000

ti. 4s.

57.24

7,290.00
425 40
12, ·
1,000.00

1957 ·····-··-···-··-··-····-··-····-··········-············ 35,000.00
Stocks:
· c o., Class A ······-··· 10•480·80
100 shares West Penn ~l~ctr1c
9 5
Book value of secunties-·······---·····-····-··-········-·-······-··-··· _6_6_,1__6_.2_
6

Total assets ·····-··················-········--··········································· 6 ·~~~-~~
Deduct, due to Masonic Homes General. ~d.··-··············-················· 65 814'.57
Net Luckenbach Fund Cash and Securities..·-··············-··--··-··-··-·· $ •
Exhibit D
·
Statement of Income and Capital Accounts
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949
Income Account:
tm ts·

1nE:~1d~;::~~e:!:I~--~~~~~~~-~~-~~~----·i . ~·g~g:g: $ 86,882.46

Luckenbach Fund ·····-········-······-··················:·····-···
•
Deduct, annual amortization ~f bond premiums
887 15
restored to endowment capital..·--··----~---··---··-··-·-·
Total income transferred to Homes General Fund........·-··-··········· $ 85,995.31
Capital Accounts:
Endowment Luckenbach
Total
Balance, August 1, 1948.....- .................$ 3,324,828.78
65,814.57 3,390,643.35
Additions to Funds:
Donations and !:>~quests:
225 287 03
225,287.03
Cash (Exh1b1t B) ......·-··-··-··-···
• ·
4;152.00
Securities (Schedule 2).·-····-···
4,152.00
229,439.03
229,439.03
Total donations and bequests
Loss from Sales of securities:
Proceeds ·········-····-···-·······-····-·······
Less, book value ················-··········

-----

11,623.72
12,552.~8

11,623.72
12,552.08

Net Loss···--········-········-··-····-···
928.36
228,~i~::;
Net increase to Endowment Fund..
228,510.67
Total Endowment Fund Assets,
......,,,..,,.,:-::-::=--:-::-.-'"".5;;;5;;,8;.;l74-;;.5;;-7ii$;;3~,6r'i"l9ii",'ii15ir.14Li,ol22
July 31, 1949 -·-·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··· $3,553,339.45 $

Regular Endowment Fund Securities Acquired Prior to July 31, 1948
On Hand July 31, 1949
Book Value
Bonds:
$ 3 000 Central Public Utilities Corp., 20 year income, 51h%,
'
1952 ................................................................................n• $
1.00
5 000 Chicago Board of Education, 4o/4. %, 1954.....- .....................
6,143.20
'goo U.S. Savings Bonds, series D, 1949 and 1950..._...........D
838.00
1,609.50
2175 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1954........ ·-··-··-··-··-······--·
2,978.50
4'025 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1955....·-············-·················
102,578.42
138,500 u. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956..•.....·-··--··-·················
555.00
'750 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1960...·-·········-·········:......... .
Increased redemption value D and F Bonds................... .
8,405.23
30,500.00
30 500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 1953, 21h %--··-···················
17,200.00
n'200 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1954..·--···················
85:000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series C121h%, 1955......................... .
85,000.00
100 000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series u, 21,2%,1957 ......................... .
100,000.00
100'000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958......................... .
100,000.00
100:000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959..........................
100,000.00
980,000.00
980,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960............... ~-----···
10,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1956-59................................. .
10,668.75
1,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2%%,1960......................................... .
1,090.00
318,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21/4, 1959-62......................................
318,545.94
160,000.00
160,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1865....·-·······-······-···············
265,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1964-69....._.......................... .
272,596.88
480,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1967-72..................................
485,562.50
100 University Masonic Temple Ass'n., 2nd Mortgage 3%,
1.00
1949 ·············-······························-···································D
Total bonds acquired prior to July 31, 1949 "D"
donated;• No interest received. ................................... $3,074,773.92
Shares of Stock' (donated)
1,370 Adams-Figueroa Investment Co.-·-············-····················· $
16 Bakersfield Masonic Temple Ass'n..................................••
200 California Packing Corporation...- ...................................... .
15 Cleveland Electric illuminating Co.................................... .
100 Container Cor.poration of America......................................
28 Deere and Co., 7 % , pfd...·----·---··-····························-···
23 Detroit Edison Company....................................................... .
1 Granada Masonic Temple Ass'n......................................... •
10 Healdsburg General Hospital, pfd...................................... .
20 Masonic Temple Ass'n. of California..................................
90 Middle South Utilities, Inc...................................................
11 Mt. Olivet Cemetery Co......- ................................................ .

9,590.00
13.00
4,200.00
585.18
1,529.21
882.00
485.19
1.00
1.00
2.00
1,176.82
552.50

7 Needles Masonic Temple Ass'~--···-·-·······-··...:·--··-··
125 North American Co .................................................................
558 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%, pfd.....................................
96 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 51h%, pfd-.............·-···············
1 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Common................................. .
75 Pacific Western Oil Co1"Poration..........................................

1.00
1,932.97
15,885.75
2,430.00
33.20
3,712.50

322

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Shares of Stock: (Continued)

37 Potomac Electric Power Co·-·--·--··-·--·····-··-·---1 San Gabriel Masonic Temple Ass'n················-········-·······•
1 Santa Anna Masonic Temple Ass'n.·········-···········-··········•
4 Security Company of Los Angeles.............................._ .....
20 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles..................
267 Southern California Edison Co•..·--········-········-·---·········
210 Standard Oil of California........................_ .............._____
1,200 Title Insuram:e and Trust Co·-··-··-···-···-····-······-~---····130 United Gas Corporation...- .................................................
500 U.S. Electric Light and Power Co.....................................
36 Wisconsin Electric Power Co...............................................

483.09
1.00
1.00
204.00
1,155.00
7,90!1.88
5,500.00
37,500.00
1,813.18
1,125.00
604.01

Total stock acquired prior to July 31, 1948........................ $
• No dividends received
Miscellaneous Securities, etc.:
Fraternal Death Certificates:
9.00
9 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co., @ $100 par........- ...$
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund....................................................
1.00
1 Masonic Temple Ass'n. of Sacramento @ $100 par
1.00
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2 @ $2"0 par........
1.00

99,249.48

Insurance Policies:
$ 500 New York Life Insurance Co.........·-·---·-··-···
1,000 Reliance Life Insurance Co·-·--·----··-·-··-···

1.00
1.00

Sundry Items:
Trustees Certificate, Bond and Mortgage Guarantee
Co., in li9uidation..................................._...........·-·-·······
1.00
Note of Keith D. and Ellen B. Hall..................................- 2,375.00
Note of A. R. Hummel.--··--··-··-·--····-·····-·---·-··-·· 3,253.13
Oil and Gas Lease with Western Gulf Oil Co•..·-··--·····
1.00

Summary

Be··

· ed prior years
ased during the"-""eill=""i"948~49·······--···-··-··-··· $3,074,773.92
ated and by ·bequy
. ·th····-······-···-···
340,207.91
. ests, d urmg
e year

1948-49 ·········-······················---·····---··--··········-·

4,150.00 $3,419,131.83

Stocks:

&cq~ddi::r~r ~ars..................................................

99,249.48
2.00

99,251.48

····-··-·--··-·-··-··-

5 644 13

n
g e year 1948-49.-.........................
11tsce11aneous:
Acquired prior years...·-··-··-········--··--··-

..

Total, as above..·--·-----··-··------ $3,524,027.44
Schedule 3
Securities Redeemed and Sold
12.00

2.00

5,630.13

Total Securities Acquired Prior to July 31, 1948....·-··-·····-··-·····-· $3,179,667.53
Schedule 2
Securities Received and Purchased
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1949
Book Value
Bonds Purchased:
$100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.a %, 1961.........-···-·-· $ 100,000.00
65,000 U.S. Certificates of Indebtedness, ll/4%, 1949·-··-···
65.024.69
175,183.22
175,000 U. S. Certificates of Indebtedness, 1 % %, 1950-··-··-·
Total bonds purchased..-----·--·-·-·--- $ 340,207.91
Donations and Bequests:
Estate of Walter D. Adriance:
4,150.00
$5,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series E, 1953·-··--·········-··-·········
From Arthur S. Crites:
1.00
10 shares Bakersfield Masonic Temple Ass'n.-··--·····-··--·From Lew Keyzer:
1.00
1 share Vista Masonic Temple Asa'n.·····-··-·--·-··--····-·
Total donations and bequest&..---··----··---·-··-

323

4,152.00

Total acquisitions in the year 1948-49....·---···-·---·-··-344,359.91
Total acquired prior years (Schedule!)·---------··-- 3,179,667.53
Total Securities on Hand, July 31, 1949·--···-·-·-·-··- $3,524,027.44

During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1949

Bonds:

$ 1,000 Madison, Inc., cumulative income 1957
1\et Pro5i~
5,090 ~tee's Certificate, Bond and Mortgagec0 ·-·-··--·
·

liqwdatmg ·········-··--······-··-··-····- ··.,
500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series C 1948 ·-··--··-··-········--··-···
2,800 U.S. Savings Bonds, series'D 1949--··---·······-····-··-···
1,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds 2¥.a % i
....................................
ltocks:
•
, 948......................................
10 shares, Alexander Film Co_ _ _ _ __
400 shares, Brookline Oil Company
---··-··---·-·-10 shares, Madison Com an In ----··---····-···---··--·16 shares, Pacific Gas
Jflectrt~--co:--commmi:"
North American Co., liquidatin divid~d.
.....................
Sale of rights on vario
t cks..g
.....................................
Building and Loan Ass~~~ns: ·-··········-····-······-····-········-··-··--·
Coast Federal Savings and Loan Ass'n.
Col~bian Building and Loan Co. (ftnal.llqu"iii"&ting......_
...........
div1dend) ..............................................................
' ............................................
······························.
Puget Sound Saving s and Loan Assn
Notes:

aJ'd

....................

Payment on ilOtes receivable..- ...-...•_. ____······-··-··--··-··-······-·
Total proceeds ···--··-······-··-····················-··-····- ············-·- $

64·23
500.00
2,800.00
1,000.00
273.94
141.80
2.50
543.74
19.69
31.98
4,879.72
12.98
277.12
424.12
11,623.72

.·.
324

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

325

bolds them for safekeeping, The real estate is a piece of property donated

September 29, 1949
Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the Masonic Ho~es
of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1949 and present herewith
the following statements.
Statements of Assets and Operations
Exhibit A: Balance Sheet, July 31, 1949.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
1948~~'{ 2~·J{!.1~ent of Revenue and Expense, for the Fiscal Year Ended
July 31, 1949.
.
·
E
D
t
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating xpense- ec~ o.
Exhibit E: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Exhibit F: Detailed Operating Expense-Dec<;>to.
Exhibit G: Detailed Operating Expense-Covina.
Detailed. Schedules of Assets and Funds
Schedule 1: Securities Owned, July 31, 1949.
Schedule 2: Entertainment Fund.
.
Schedule 3: Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund.
Schedule 4: Summer Camp Fund.
Schedule 5: C. N .Flint Trust Fund.
Schedule 6: C. N. Flint Annuity Fund.
.
Schedule 7: Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund.
Schedule 8: Verbarg Fund.
Schedule 9: Lee R. Talbert Fund.
Schedule 10: Perine Endowment Fund.
Schedule 11: Building Fund.
Schedule 12: Decoto Monthly Grant Fund.
Comments
Cash:
d d
"t d . th
All recorded receipts were properly accounted for an
~posi e in e
ro er funds bank accounts. The bank balances were verified by cor~­
~po~dence with the depositaries. The total cash is made up of the following
accounts:

Treasurers' accounts:
.
$
6 92
American Trust Company, commercial..-······-··':'······-······-···
1, 3 · 8
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co.,. commercial...............
8,428.35
Anglo California National Bank, savings..·-··- ··-··-···············
14,008.07
Bank of America, savings............................................................
2,305.40
Operating
accounts:
15
Decoto-Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co................ _.....
,907·56
Covina-Security First National Banlt..·-···-·-······-··············-·
4,082.16
Revolving Funds:
500.00
Decoto ·····-·-··-··--··-······-··-··-···-·-··-··-··-··-······-··-··-··-··-·
1 500 00
Covina ···-··-······························-··························-·························
'
'37
Deposits in transit from Decoto and Covina......-··-··············-··_·__2_,0_3_6_._
Total--·---··-··-·-·-··-·-··----··-·-··--··-··---·.$

50,407.19

Investments:
The securities owned by the Masonic Homes are all government bonds
and are shown on Schedule 1 and are listed at actual cost. The bonds w~re
verified by a certified list fr~m the Anglo California National Bank which

to the general fund of the Homes.

Properties:
The value of the properties as shown on the Balance Sheet, Exhibit A,
is the cost of the two homes at Decoto and Covina, owned by the Masonic
Homes of California. During the current year, $350,041.48 was disbursed
for the construction of new buildings and for improvements to the old buildings and for new equipment.
Other Funds:
The Masonic Homes has numerous separate funds which have been
created for definite or special purposes. Some were created by donation and
by bequest to the Homes for a particular purpose, and others by action of
the Board of Trustees to set aside money that is to be used only for the
purpose indicated by the title of the fund. Full details of these funds are
shown on the attached statements, Schedule 2 to 12, inclusive.
All interest and dividends due on the investments of these funds were
received and deposited in the proper bank accounts. The investments not
pB:Ying interest or dividends are so noted. Payments of principal and
interest have been received on the notes and contracts owned by the Monthly
Grant Fund. Insurance premiums and taxes due on real estate have been
paid. Proper payments were made from the annuity funds in accordance
with the contracts and agreements.
·
All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
The securities were accounteod for as held by the Anglo California National
Bank, or in the office of the Grand Secretary. Those held by the bank were
verified by a certified list from the bank, and those in the office of the Grand
Secretary were inspected.
Total Funds of the Homes:
A summary of all funds connected with the Masonic Homes as at July
31, 1949 is shown below.
Homes 9-eneral Fund ··-··········-··········-······-······························-···$2,9'15,297.03
Entertainment Fund ···················-··············-························-··-·······
23,355.52
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund..•...................·-····-···········
64,620.81
Summer Camp Fund ·······················-···············································
27,619.88
C. N. Flint Trust Fund ·······-··-······-······························-················· 200,699.25
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund ·······················-·······································
87,012.54
Verbar~ Fund···-··-··-··········-··········-··········-··-··············-·-··-··-···
12,820.73
Lee R. albert Fund ···········································-············-···············
11,578.15
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund..............
20,987.67
BuildiniIFund ···-·-··-······························"··························-··-······· 158,979.36
Decoto onthly Grant Fund···············-·······················-·····~··-·25,781.36
Covina Special Fund ······-··········:.......- .:········-·······························
22,024.85
Decoto Special Fund ···············-······-··································-···········
5,913.93
Total ···--···········-··-··········-·············-······-··-··-················-··--·.$3,636,691.08
RHenue and Expense:
A detailed audit was made of the revenue and expense accounts and we
aatisfied ourselves as to the general correctness of the accounting records.
The Endowment Fund interest received is in agreement with the Endowment Fund report. Interest due on the investments was received. All records
of the contributions received through Lodges were examined and the
amounts received appear to be all that can be collected. All disbursements
were made by check and supported by proper vouchers.
'!'.he 1948 annual returns from the Lodges were audited and the $25.00
contributions due thereon, plus the contributions received during the first
~quarters of 1949, agreed with the amount turned over to the Treasurer
w. the Home by the Grand Secretary. There was no per capita levy this year.

326

Exhibit A
Balance Sheet
July 31. 1949

The operations of the Masonic Homes resulted in a loss of $81,?57.43 for
the current year, as shown by our Exhibit C. The overall expenses increased
$13,000.00 over last year, while the revenue decrease4 $42,000.00. T_he ~ain
loss of revenue came through a decrease of $44,000.00 m $25.00 contributions.

Certificate:
We certify that, in our opinion, the ~ccompanying st!ltem~nts present
fairly the financial condition of the Masonic Homes of California as at July
31, 1949 and the result of its operations for the fiscal year ended ·J uly 31, 1949.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS, PARKER, CARSON & HARMS
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

327

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

A11ei1

Cash:

Treasu~er's bank accounts..........·-··········-······-··--·-.$

Decoto and Covina..............
Revolving funds - Decoto and Covina......·-···········
Deposits in transit.--··-··-···:··········-·-··-····--··-·-···

26,381.10
19,989.72
2,000.00
2,036.37 $

Receivables:
Luckenbach Fund ···················-································-···
Monthly Grant Fund ·······-······-······-······-··········-··-··

438.92
32,277.57

Operat~ng accounts -

Pi~fec~ll~~tl~~~s .:~~-~~--~~-~~~-~-~---··-·············-~

Investments:
Securities Schedule
Real estate ···-·····-··-·····-·-··································-·:-...

1,521.98

I>--------· 214,963.13

2,700.00

50,407.19

34,238.47

217.663.13

Properties (At cost-no depreciation taken):
·
Land, buildings and equipment-Decoto................ 2,138,880.46
Land, buildings and equipment-Covina................ 606,093.98 2,744,974.44
Stores and Supplies:

. g~;oin~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Assets Held in Separate Funds:
Entertainment Fund (Schedule 2) ............................
Students' Loan Fund (Schedule 3) ............................
Summer Camp Fund (Schedule 4) ....·-··········-·········
C. N. Flint Trust Fund (Schedule 5) ..........................
C. N. Flint Annui~ Fund (Schedule 6).----·- ·Verbarg Fund (S edule 8)........................................
Lee R. Talbert Fund (Schedule 9).- .........................
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment
Fund (Schedule 10>--·-- ················--··--·-··-··- ·······
BuildinlfFund (Schedule 11).......·-- ----·····················
Decoto onthly Grant Fund (Schedule 12)..·-·······
Assets Held in Trust:
Endowment Funds:
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment
Fund (Schedule 7) ·······-······-············· 22,608.76
Real estate held for sale...........·--·-··
127.00
Decoto Residents' Deposits:
Cash deposited in general fund ..·-······· 3,351.23
Central Bank, Niles, special account.. 5,507.31
Total assets ..........................................
Liabilities, Reserves and Capital:
Liabilities:
Money received for special purposes:
Covina Spec_ial Fund ···-··-·····-·-·-··-$22,024.85
Decoto Special Fund ···-·-·-········-······· 5,913,93
Advance payments for special
children's expense ·········-···················
18.75

l~:~g~g~

16,360.63

23,355.52
64,620.81
27,619.88
200,699.25
87,012.54
12,820.73
11,578.15
20,987.67
158,979.36
25,781.36

633,455.27

22,735.76
8,858.54

$27,957.53

31,594.30
$3,728,693.43

328

Due other funds:
Entertainment Fund •............................• 13,355.52
Summer Camp Fund ..............................
521.88
Building Fund ........................................ 15,158.67
Decoto Residents' Deposits .................. 3,351.23
Grand Lodge of California.................... 28,000.00

----Total cash from revenue accounts ..

2.00

Total liabilities ................................. .
Reserves (per contra):
Assets held in separate funds ................... .
Assets held in trust................................... .

Total ···································-·············
Deduct:
Excess of expenses over revenue
1948-49 (Exhibit C) ........................... .

:Miscellaneous revenue:
Farm rent-Decoto ................................
600.00
Canteen-Decoto .................................... 7,206.69
Sundry income-Decoto ....................... .
326.96
Farm sales--Covina ................................ 2,232.40
Sundry income-Covina ......................
171.01

60,387.30

Withholding tax payable ........................

Capital:
Balance, August 1, 1948....................·-··-···
Add:
New buildings and improvements at
Decoto transferred from Building
Fund (Schedule II) ···········-···············

$
633,455.27
31,594.30

88,346.83
665,049.57

2,707,012.98

350,041.48
3,057,054.46
81,757.43

Balance, July 31, 1949..................................
Total liabilities, reserves and capital

2,975,297.03
$3,728,693.43

Exhibit B
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
August I. 1948 to July 31. 1949

General Fund:
Cash Balance, August 1, 1948.•·-··········-··········-··-···-··--·-···--··········.$ 301,700.58
Receipts:
Revenue Accounts:
$25.00 Homes contributions-current
year ..........................................................
$270,125.00
Prior years $25.00 contributions..............
625.00
Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ..................................$84,075.01
Luckenbach Fund .................................. 1,802.50
85,877.51
Contributions through Lodges
For Decoto ................................................ 7,715.00
For Covina ................................................ 5,598.31
State aid for Covina..................·-···············
Care of employees' children--Covina... .
Income from donated property............... .
Interest from general fund investments
Refund of disbursements:
Special children expense ..................... .
106.25
Employees expense ................................
36.75
185.75
Outside relief ......................................... .
Funeral expense .................................... 5,757.45

329

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

13,313.31
864.00
300.00
400.00
3,311.46

I

For Account of Trust and Reserve Funds
Proceeds from Sale of Bonds........................
For Special Purposes:
Beverly Management Association .......... 2,000.00
Decoto Special Fund .................................. 3, 772.54
Covina Special Fund .................................. 16,937.46
Special children expense ........................
18.75

391,439.54
278,085.02
47,550.00

22,728.75

Total receipts .......................................

739,803.31

Total to account for ...........................

$1,041,503.89

Disbursements:
Expense Accounts:
$279,654.81
Operating expense-Decoto ....................
132,236.11
Operating expense--Covina ....................
6,383.16
Funeral expense ($5,757.45 refunded) ..
9,789.45
Outside relief ($187.75 refunded) ..........
540.00
Outside care of children..........................
Canteen expense-Decoto (fully refunded)
6,476.88
Expenses of donated property ............... .
504.41
Administration and general expense:
Taxes ..........................................................
780.59
Insurance .................................................. 10,711.16
Refund of $25.00 contributions of
prior years ............................................ 3,325.00
Social welfare agents:
Northern district ................................ 5,551.42
Southern district ................................ 2,899.47
Reimbursed Grand Lodge--£ecretary's and assistant's salaries............ 4,500.00
Pensions-retired employees .............. 3,050.00
Trustees expense .................................... 2,316.88
Auditing .................................................... 1,520.00
750.00
Safekeeping of securities ....................
405.98
Telephone and postage......................... .
854.68
Office supplies and printing ................
13.35
Notary and recording fees ....................
36,768.92
Sundry ..................................................... .
90.39
Total disbursed for expenses........... .
For Account of Trust and Reserve Funds
Special Purpose Funds:
Beverly Management Association.......... 3,238.46
Covina Special Fund .................................. 1,054.86
Total disbursements ......................... .
C-ash Balance, July 31, 1949..................·-···

6,086.20

10,537.06

472,353.74
514,449.64
4,293.32

-----

991,096.70
$ 50,407.19

330

Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Operating Expense - Decoio
for ihe Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949

Exhibit C
STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSES
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949

•Operating Expense:
Maintenance
----.,--··-···-··-··---' 124,471.64
71,261.29
Hospital and medical..-····-·--·-··--..··-----·····--····-·· ..13,051.53
Fann and &arden.....----··-··--·······-········-····-··--·
8,893.43
Laundry ·····-··-··-·····-··--··--···-··---····-····--·-·---·
8,817.86
Heating plant ·---··---····-··-·-··-····--······-······-··---·
4,044.08
=~~%ii~~·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1,968.59
General and administrative...- ...................................
50,917.71

Revenue:
$25 00 Homes contributions, current year
$ 270,125.00
Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ···-··-······-········-······-··-$83•9831·6
995 31
Luckenbach Fund ···-······-······-······-··-··-· 2,01 .6
85,
·

g

Contributions through Lodges:
For Decoto ···-··-··-·:-··- ··----··-··-··-··-··· 7•715.00
For Covina ···-··-··-··-··-··---··---·- 5,598.31
State aid for Covina ···········-··-··-····.-··-·······
Care of employee's children-Covma........
Income from general fund donated
property - net ·--·-··-··-·---··-··-·-···
Interest from general fund iJ:;>.vestments....
Interest accrued on U.S. Savmgs
Bonds series F ·······-······-·-··-··---····-···

Total (refer to Exhibit F for details)....................
J)educt:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm .p roduce consumed.-··-····-···-··--····-······-···'
Farm rent····-·--····-····----····················-·············-Sales of produce..·-····-··-···----···-···-··--··--Profit from canteen....·-··-········-···-··-------·
Sundry revenue ···-··---·· ..-·······-··-·--·····-·····--·--·

13,313.31
864.00
300.00
254.87
3,311.46
1,680.00
$375,843.95

Total revenue ·······-··-··-··-··-····-··-···
Expense
Operation of Homes:
Decoto (Schedule D) ···-··-·--··-··········-··.278,572.41 407,878.77
Covina (Schedule E) ·······-··-··-··-······-···129,306.36
9,603.70
Outside relief ···-··-·----··-···--···----···--·-···
540.00
Outside care of children·--------··----··-·······
2,450.00
Loss on sale of securities _______ .._______ .......
Expenses paid on Endowment Fund
real estate .......----··----··-··--····-·-······-···
Funeral expense-net ···----·-·-·-··-··-··-···
Administrative and general ex.p ense:
780.59
Taxes
···-··-··-·--··-·-··-··-··-··-··----·····-10
Insurance ..........................._............-........... •71116
·
Refunds of $25.00 contributions of
prior years ..............·-··-··---··-·--·--····---· 2,700.00
Social welfare agents:
Northern district .......- ......................- ... 5,551.42
Southern district ...................- ............... 2,899.47
Secretary's and assistant's salaries ........ 4,500.00
Pensions-retired employees ···-··--····---· 3,050.00
2,316.88
Trus.t~s· expense --·-··---·-------··-··-··-··· 1,520.00
Aud1tmg ---··-··--·-·-·····-··---···-··-·--··
750.00
Safekeeping of securities ···-··-··---·-··--···
405.98
Telephone and postage ---···-·······---·-----·-854.68
Office supplies and printing....... _...........
13.35
Notary and recording fees ..._...................
90.39
Sundry ----···--·-····--····---···-········-···

-----

Total expense ·······--··-··-··----··-·--····
Excess of Expense Over Revenue................

331

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$ 283,426.13
3,196.95
600.00
127.44
729.81
199.52

4,853.72

$ 278,572.41
Net Operating Expense.•·-··----··-··-··-·-··-··········-···
•Note: Total operating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures per Exhibit B .......- ..- .......$ 279,654.81
(b) Add non-cash expenses:
574.37
Decrease in stores inventory........--·······-···
3,196.95
Farm produce consumed..............................

Total ,as above.·--··-·-·-··-·-··--··---.$ 283,426.13
Exhibit E
Statement of Direct Operating Expense - Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949

359.28
625.71

"Operating Expense:

Main~~anc~
···~------··-----·-' 112,666.93
13,400.99
AdmmIStratlve expense ...........- .................................
Farm expense ···---··············---···--·············----····--···--..··
Total (refer to Exhibit G for details) ..·-··-······---·
Deduct:
Sundry Direct revenue:
Farm produce sold outside....·-··········-····-·--··-··.$
Sundry revenue ···-··-··········-··-··-··········-···· .. -··-···

36,143.92
457,601.38
$ 81,757.43

Net Operating B.ennue...--··-··-·-·-··-··-···················
-Note: Total operating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit B .......- ...........
(b) Less: E~enditur~s for inc:ease
m stores mventor1es............................$
Partial payment received for
special children expense..·-··········-···

5,641.85

$ 131,709.77

2,232.40
171.01

2,403.41
$ 129,306.36

$ 132,236.11
420.09
106.25

526.34

----- $ 131,709.77
Total expense, as above. .....·-·········

332

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Exhibit F
Detailed Operating Expense - Decolo
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1949
Maintenance:
Food:
Groceries --··--··-··········-······-;·-·······$
Meat ....................................................... .
Fish ......................................................... .
Fruit and vegetables............................
Butter, milk and eggs..........................
Bakers' supplies ....................................

22,544.24
25,209.46
1,598.80
12,253.17
28,501.60
3,171.10 .

Total food cost..·-··············-···············
Less, charge to hospital for meals....

93,278.37
19,258.42 $

Kitchen and dining room:
Repairs and maintenance....................$
Expense ..................................................
Salaries and wages..................................
Sundry
Residents' supplies .......- .......................$
Dry goods and bedding........................

333

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

General and Administrative:
superintendent and office saalries................................$
Lig!it, heat, power anq W!lter.•·-··········-············-···········
office supplies and prmting··········-·······················-····-·
Telephone and ~legraph............. _..................................•
Repairs and maintenance............................................- ..
Furniture and equipment................................................
Miscellaneous expense ···············-···································
Total Operating Expense - Decoto....................... .

17,431.07
24,528.26
791.70
1,174.27
5,717.12
729.94
545.35

50,917.71

$ 283,426.13

Exhibit G
Detailed Operating Expense - Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July :n. 1949

74,019.95

Maintenance:
Care of Children:

921.64
3,003.53

3,925.17
43,884.58

1,121.78
1,520.16

2,641.94

$ 124,471.64

Total maintenance expense....... .
Hospital and Medical:
Salaries and wages...- .......................................................$
Meals to staff and patients................................................
Medical supplies ................................................................
Dental expense ···········-·····················································
Surgical expense ................................................................
Eye, ear, nose and throat. .....·-·········································
Eye, ear, nose and throat.-······································-·······

40,640.64
19,258.42
4,749.09
1,220.00
3,391.17
2,001.97
2,001.97

-----

Farm and Garden:
Salaries and wages..........·-······················-·······················$
Tools and equipment......·-······················-·······················
Seeds ···················-······················································-·······
Feed ....................~.................................................................
Miscellaneous expense ....................................................

7,757.59
2,718.62
288.55
898.02
1,388.75

Laundry:
Salaries and wages........- ..................................................$
Supplies and expense........................................•...............

7,839.12
1,054.31

Healing Plant:
Salaries and wa~···················-····························-·········$
Repairs and maintenance......................................·-·······
Paint Shop:
Salaries and wages..·-··········································-······-···$
Supplies and expense..·-······································-···········
Transportation:
Salaries and wages..................................·-··············-·-····$
Gasoline and oll...•··-·-···--······-··············-··········-·············
Tires and repair&·-·······-··-························;......................

71,261.29

13,051.53

8,893.43

Food:
Meat
Fruits --······--·-······-··-··········-·······*
and vegetables..................... .
Canned goods ................................... .
Butter, milk and eggs........·-···········
Bakery goods ···-·······························
Cereals ............................................... .
Miscellaneous groceries ................. .
Outside meals ....................................

8,649.26
3,231.88
5,221.90
6,874.05
2,097.07
533.08
5,348.01
3,698.67 $

35,653.92

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries ---··-----······-··················.$
Supplies ..............................................
Repairs and replacements..............

8,303.52
481.16
1,612.12

10,396.80

Clothing:
Ready to wear....................................$
Cleaning and repairs..·-···················
Dry goods and notions..................... .

2,047.70
541.75
69.26

2,658.71

Laundry: .
·
Salanes -·-··-·-·-··-·-··-··-······-····.$
Supplies ••....................•..•....................
Repairs and replacements........... :....

3,196.48
1,300.16
110.46

4,607.10

Dormitories:
Salari!'!S ···-··---······-··---~~-·-··..$
Supplies ···-·····················'···················
Repairs and replacements............. .

17,738.61
688.47
1,920.78

20,347.86

-----

7,779.86
1,038.00

8,817.86

3,031.96
1,012.12

4,044.08

Hospital and medical:
Salaries ·······················-·····················$
Doctors' and dentists' fees ..............
Medicine and drugs...•.•....·-··-·········
Other supplies ....................................
Outside hospital, X-ray,
glasses, etc. ···-·--·······················$
Repairs and replacements ............... .

1,986.59

General expense:
Tonsorial services ···--············-··-···'
Automobile expense ···················-···
Miscellaneous expense ···-···············

375.00
694.57
899.02

4,930.99
1,249.00
1,212.48
76.89
1,422.15
470.04

9,361.55

220.98
901.78
695.78

1,818.54

----Total care of children..................

$

84,844.48

334

335

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule 1
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES OWNED
GENERAL FUND
. July 31, 1949

General House and Property Expense:
Power plant:
Salaries ···················-············-······-···-$
Fuel oil, waste and lubrications...•
Repairs and replacements..·-·········

3,295.08
3,555.21
688.25

Repairs to buildings:
Salaries ---·---··---··-·-·-··--'
Plumbing repairs ···-··-······-··-·········
Sup:plies ···---··-······-··········-··-·········
Engmeer's stock·······-······-··-·········-

4,236.69
370.49
2,174.50
422.64

7,204.32

Total securities····--·········-··-··-··-·····-··-··-··········-··-···-···--·····-..$ 214,963.13
•Transferred from Monthly Grant Fund.

Care of grounds:
Salaries ---·-·-··--·-·--··---'
Supplies ·······························-··-·········

2,627.50
692.38

3,319.88

Schedule 2
Statement of Entertainment Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949

General expense:
Gas, water and light......-·-·····-·······$
Automobile expense ···-··-···············
Sundry supplies and expense........
Equipment expense ..........................

5,113.49
246.45
2,680.52
1,719.25

Total house and property
expense ···-······-·-·····················
Total maintenance cost..........·-···
Administrative Expense:
Salaries ···--·-·-··-······-····--·············--··-········-····-··-····-$
Stationery, printing and supplies...........---········-·········
Postage ···········-············-············-··-·-·····················-···-···
Telephone and telegra:l?h.··-······-··-·································
Automobile and traveling expense......·-······-······-··-···
Freight and expTel!B.••••••••·-··-··-··········-··········-··-·········
Miscellaneous expense ·······················-······-·····-·····-···

7,538.54

Bonds:
$ 80,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956....•..-··········-··-··-··"···-$ 59,200.00
Increased redemption value of F Bonds..........................
4,560.00
100,~00
~Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1957..........·-··-··-··· 100,000.00
51,203.13
• 50, 00 • • Treasury Bonds, 2% %, 1956-62..............·-···············

"B·

$ 27,822.45
$ 112,666.93
9,398.25
916.11
225.03
1,171.06
824.42
83.83
782.29

$

13,400.99

Farm Expense:
Orchard:

Salaries -----··-··-··-·...:.:..-.-·----.$
Supplies ···-·-··-········-·;··---······-··-···Tractor Fuel ···-·····-··-········:·····-··-·····
Water -·--··-··-·········'········-··-·-··--···

Pigeons - feed ···-··-··-··-······-··········-···
Pigs:
Supplies and expense............................$
Replacements ···-··-··-······-··············.·····
Produce - plants and trees....................
General farm e1q1ense..........·-················

1,777.65
1,202.14
190.02
504.94

Total ···-··-······-··-······················································-·
Disbursements:
Deco~o Christ~as ··-- ..--···-····-·---..-..,.-...-----f
Deco o Entertamment ..................................................
Covina Entertainment ···-··········-·····························-

33,397.05
2,140.00
2,148.83
5,752.70

10,041.53
23,355.52

Composition of Fund
Due from Masonic Homes general fund-·-·-·-··-··--··-·-······-··-··-$
$10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1960........................·-···

13,355.52
10,000.00

Balance, July 31, 19t8...................- ...........................................................$

23,355.52

Schedule 3
Statement of Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949
Dividends and interest from
investments----·----·---*
Less, reserved for amorization
of bond premium..........................

3,674.75

9,966.80

Balance, July 31, 1119•.•........................-··-··········-··-·······-·-··-··········-·-'

~d~ce, August l, lMB--·-··········-··-··-----·--·--··-··-······-.'$

21.80
354.19
488.96

23,430.25

----------·-··-··----------..$

9,759.71

Total administrative expense................·-··-··-···········

Balance. August 1, 1848•.•••.. ---~---······-·····-··-·····-·....······-·----·-··-$
Receipts:
Contributions
9,716.80
Interest from investments............................................
250.00

Contributions -·-··-········--···········'········

64,628.02

2,229.30
17.76

2,211.54
376.25

2,587.79

843.15

Deduciotal ···-··--·······················································································

67,215.81

59.60
1,042.55

Dispersed for educational purposes......·-··························-···············
Balance, July 31 ,IMl..___________.,..._____________________________.f

2,595.00
64,620.81

Composition of Fund
Cash in Anglo California National Bank.--·-··-·-·······················--$

2,6{13.a!}

Total farm expense..·-··'."'--···········-···

5,641.85

Total Operating Expense - Covina......

$ 131,709.77

337

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

piocEEDINGS OF THE

336

Composifion of Fund

Securities:
Bonds:

$ 5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970......$
4,000 Southern California Gas Co.,
31/4 %, 1970 ···············-·······························
5,000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971....
100 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1955........
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956........

Increased redemption value of F bonds

4,270.00
5,150.00
74.00
7,400.00
578.20

5,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, veries G,
2lf.i%, 1955 ················································
10,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21/4 %, 1959-62......
5,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lf.i%, 1965..........

5,000.00
10,500.00
5,000.00

Preferred stocks:
527 Shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%....
125 Shares Southern California Edison Co.,

Cash:
Anglo California National Bank..·-····---·--··--··-··········-·-·--··--··--$
Other assets:
Im.proved real estate (assessed value) ............................................. .
&eclll'ities:
Bonds:
$ 10,000 Los Angeles Mountain Park Co
defaulted ...................................:..._.....$
1,650.00
125,675 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956......
92,999.50
13,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957....... .
9,990.00
2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959........
1,628.00
Increase in redemption value of
F Bonds ................................................ ..
7,353.35
8,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G,

5,100.00

14,000.00

4.48% ....................... -...............................
125 Shares Southern California Edison Co.,
4.32% ···-··-······-··-··········-······-··-···········

2,500.00

Total cost ..........................:.........·-··-···
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums..

62,072.20
134.68

2,500.00
-----

Net book value ···································-·······················
Balance, July 31 ,18'8.......--·-······-··-······-··-··-······-··-··-··-··-··-······---$

61,937.52
64,620.81

Schedule 4
Statement of Summer Camp Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949

2lf.i%, 1954 ............................................ ..
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G,
2lf.i%, 1955 ..............................................
18,300 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G,
2lf.io/o, 1957 .............................. :...............
7,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G,
2lf.i%, 1958 ···························-··········-·····
4,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lf.i%, 1965-70....
Stocks:
160 shares, Security First National Bank

of Los Angeles ......................................

Balance. August l, 11'8...........-······················-··············-·······-······--··.$
Add:
Interest from investnients..........·-················-····························-·····Balance July 31, 19.tlL----··---··-·-·---·-··-·-·-··-······-··········-··-···$
Compoailion of Fund
Securities:
$34,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956............$ 25,160.00
Increased redemption value of F Bonds....
1,938.00

26,905.88

Due from Masonic Homes general fund. ...............................................
Balance July 31, 19'9..--·-··-······-··-··-··········-··-····...............................$

521.88
27,619.88

500 shares, Transamerica Corporation)
200 shares, Bank of America N.T.S.A.) ..... .
253 shares, Security Company of

Los Angeles ........................................... .

4,322.64
5,480.00

8,000.00
10,000.00
18,300.00
7,500.00
4,157.50

8,850.00
12,878.26
7,590.00

190,896.61

714.00
27,619.88

Balance, July 31. 1848...-·-··········-··-··-··········-··········-·-··-·······-·-······-$ 200,699.25

27,098.00

Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1949

Schedule 6

Balance. August 1, 1M8...-·-··--······-··-···-·---·····-··-··········-·······-····.$
Add:
Interest from investments.........................................................:......... .

85,805.59

Total -·-·-··-······-··-·-···········-········-·-·····-····-·······-·-··-··-···--..$
Deduct:
Payments on contract..................................................................- ..-

87,912.54

87,012.54

6,357.93

Balance, July 31. 180............................................- ...................·..... __ .$
.
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank. .....................·--·····--··-··---···-.$
Securities:
$42,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956............$ 31,080.00
7,474.00
10,100 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957............
Increased redemption value of F bonds....
2,556.70
1,000 U. S. Savings Bond, series G, 2lf.i o/~ 1954..
1,000.00
42,600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i'7o, 1957
42,600.00

84,710.70

Balance, July 31, 11'8·-··-······-·-·······-·-··--··-··-··-·-······-··-··-·-·--.$ 200,699.25

Balance, July 31, 1949................................................................................$

87,0~2.54

Schedule 5
Statement of C. N. Flint Trust Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949
Balance August 1. llf.8____
··-·--·-·-·-··-··-··-··--··-$ 200,699.25
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments................$
6,107.93
6,357.93
Rental of house..·-·········-······-··-··························-·····
250.00
Total ··- ----·---.................................----··-···-·-···----··---·-···----$ 207,057.18
Deduct:

~:;~~:!~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Transfer of net yield from investments to

Decoto Monthly Grant Fund.·-··················-·-········

498.02
300.00
63.50

5,496.41

2,106.95

900.00

2,301.84

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule 7
Statement of Harriett C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuniiy Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949

Schedule 9
Statement of Lee R. Talbert Fund
For the Fiscal Yeu Ended July 31. 1949

---..:....·--·-·-···---···-·-··-··-* 23,427.20

Balance. August 1, 11N8...
Add:
Interest .f rom investinents...............-··········-·······································

531.56

Total -.--------..:..··----·-··-··-·-·-·--~----·-··•···-··-·.$

23,958.76

Deduct:
Payments on contracl..-··-·-·-··-····-··-······-··-··-······-··-··---·······-···

1,350.00

Balance, July 31, 194SL-··-······-·---·-··-·-·-·-·--···-··---·-···$

22,608.76

Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank..·-······-······-··········-·--···-··-··-·······$
Securities:
$10,000 U.S. Savings Bond, series G, 2%%, 1960 $ 10,000.00
10,000 U. S .Treasury Bonds, 2% %, 1965-70..........
10,000.00

20,000.00

Balance. July 31, 1110-·---~·--·-····-·----··-:.....,.--·--·-$

22,608.76

2,608.76

Schedule 8
Statement of Verbarg Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended ·July 31, 1949
Balance, August 1, IMIL--······-··-----········-·-··--··-·······-$
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments...·---·······-··········-···········

14,924.05

Total ·--··-··-·-·-··-······---··-··-·-······-··----··-:·-·-·--··-··-······Deduct:
Purchase of radio equipment for Decoto hospital..---·--···········

15,371.10

447.05

2,550.37

- - - -·---··--·---··.$ 12,820.73

Balance, July 31, lMI------·

Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank .• -·---··--·-·-··..·---··-····..-·. .$

Securities:
Bonds:
$1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G,
2%%, 1953 -----------·-·-·······$
Stocks:
8 shares American Telephone and
Telegraph Co. ···-··-······-··-··-··-··············--···
112 shares Amigos Oil Co.·---·-···-·-······-·-·--·
23 shares Bank of America N. T. S. A..·-····-·····
53 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co.,
5%%, pfd. ···-················--··-··-············-·········
84 shares Transamerica Corporation......·-··-·····
Balance, July 31, lMI-.-

339

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5,571.14

-·-·-······---·-·-··-··---·-···--·-·-* 11,422.06

Balance, August 1, 1948...

Add:
Dividends and interest from investments..·---~·····-··-··-···········

Total ·-··-.-·-··-··---··-··-··-·-·-·-·----

299.64

----..$ 11,721.70

Deduct:
Loss on sale of securities..·-·-·-······-··-······-··-····-······-··-··-······-··-·

143.55

Balance, July 31, 19t9...________··-·-·····---··---·--··-·-··-··-··---$

11,578.15

Composuion of Fund

Cash:
Anglo California National Bank.-··-··-·-··-··-·---········---··-······-$
Securities:
Preferred Stock:
10 shares Associated Telephone Co.., 4% % ......•.$
220.00
37 shres Southern California Edison Co.,
.48% ..................................................................
1,138.41
37 shares Southern California Edison Co.
4.32% ...........- .........................................'............
1,138.40
20 shares Southern California Gas Co., 6% ........
765.00
5 shares Union Oil Co. of California, 3o/4 % ......
525.00
10 shares United States Envelope Co., 7% ..........
1,350.00
Seven letters of Patent....·--··-··-··--··-······------·-··

6,441.34

5,136.81

Balance, July 31, lMI..--·---··----·--·········-··-··-··-··-··-··-···' 11,578.15
Schedule 10
Statement of George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1949
Balance, August 1, lMI..--~---·--··-··-·······-:..··-··········---'
Add:
Interest from investments.......--······-··-·-··········-······-··-··-··········

20,485.30

Balance, July 31, 1919...--·-···--·-··-··-·-··-······-·····-······-··~-··--·-f
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank..-···-----·--..------·.$
Securities:
$10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds1 series G, 2%%, 1959..$ 10,000.00
10,371.87
10,000 U.S. Treasury Bonas, 2%%, 1964-69.....-...

20,987.67

Balance, July 31, lMI..- ..

_ _ _ _ _...

502.37

615.80
20,371.87
20,987.67

Schedule 11
Statement of Building Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949
~~crce, August 1. utt•--·-·········-·-····-·-··-··-·---··-···--·• 417,934.33

1,000.00
1,494.54
1.00
1,192.80
2,133.25
1,428.00

7,249.59

·------'

12,820.73

Transferred from Monthly Grant Fund...........- .....$ 100,000.00
Bequests ········:··-··········---··-············-····-··-··-··-········· 100,260.06
Interest from mvestments.............,..............................
4 283.63
Profit on sales of securities..·-······-··--··-··-··-··-'········
7:818.32
Sundry refunds·······-··-·······-···········--·········-·---···-··
25.89
Total.·--------~~-

212.387.90

·- - - - - - - - - - - .. 630,322.23

3-il

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

340

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Deduct
Alterations and repa!rs - Dec~to..............................
Alterations and repairs - Covma..·-·························
New buildings and improvements - Decoto..........

118,899.89
2,401.50
350,041.48

Balance, July 31, 18'9...- ..--·-··-··················-·····--····-··-·······················*
Composition of Fund
Securities:
Bonds:
. F, 1956......$
7,400.00
$ 10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series
Increased redemption value of
570.00
F Bonds ·······-··-··-························-···
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G
10,000.00
21h%, 1955 ·······-··-··-······-·····················
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G,
100,000.00
21h % 1959 ···············-··-·····-··················
5,000 U.S. S~vings Bonds, series G,
5,000.00
21h%, 1960 ···································-·········

471,342.87
158,979.36

-----

S~ks:
·
100 Graham Paige Motor Corporation..............

122,970.00

2UW
·
20,637 .50

1,300 Imperial Oil Limited......................................

Total securities···-··-··-······-··-·--·---·----······---·-~·--'.
Due from Homes General Fund.......- ....-.--.,..·-··-··-··-··---···-·-···

20,850.69
1

1H~~:~~
•

Balance, July 31, 1849...-··········-··---··-·-··-··········-······-···-·-··---··-··.$ 158,979.36
Schedule 12
Statement of Decoto Monthly Grant Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1949
Balance. August 1, 19'1..·-··-··-··-·-···-·-····--·-··-··-··-··-··-······-·······$
Add:
.
fr
Proceeds of sales of, and income om,
pro12erty donated to the fund...- .............................$ 28,017.42
20,197.75
Contributions by applicants..................................·-···
19,608.50
Pensions ···-······-··········-·················································
3,598.19
Deceased residents' deposits........................................
5,496.41
Transfer from C. N. Flint Trust Fund......................

66,693.09

76,918.27

Balance, July 31, 18'9-··--·-··········-··-··---·-··-······---·-··-·-··-···$

25,781.36

Composition of Fund

-----

2,722.29

-----

Stocks:
4 American Telephone and Telegraph Co...·-······-·········
20 Axe-Houghton Fund, Inc. ···············-······-······-··········-···
178-4/5 Bank of America N. T .S. A-······-··-····---····-········-···
5 C!!-~ifornia f acking Corporation, 5 % pfd.....·--···········5 Cities Service Company..............·-··-··-·..·······-····.............
103 Home Insurance Co. of New York...................._.............
5 Iowa Electric Light & Power Co., series A, pfd...........
270 Julion Oil & Royalty Company..-....................................
15 Kern County Mutual Building & Loan Ass'n...............
7,160 Kutz Canon Oil & Gas Co.......·-······-······-··-··-······---···
8 Magnavox Co..................,.....-··-······················-·················
6 Masonic Hall Ass'n. of Alameda..............·-······-········-···
2 Masonic Temple Ass'n. of Stockton................................
98 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., common................................
14 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 51h%, pfd.... _.......................
1 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%, pfd.................................
. 4 Southern California Edison Company, 4.32% pfd.)
4 Southern California Edison Company, 4.48% pfd.)....
5 Standard Oil Co. of California..........................................
5421h Transamerica Corporation ................................................
100 Walworth Company ....................... _.............................. _.

677.73
144.60
6,547.55
262.50
178.13
3,350.00
497.50
33.75
1,500.00
1,432.00
100.00
1.00
1.00
3,096.59
423.50
33.75
204.96
280.00
8,633.94
475.00

Building and Loan Certificates:
Southern California Building & Loan Ass'n............_....-...............

800.00

-----

830 00
117, .

Insurance pollcies (page 3)..•...·-······- ··············-··-···Notes and contracts receivable (page 3)....................

Total bonds·······················-········-··················-··········-···

----27,873.50

Total - · - - - - - -·--··-·....,.---___,..__
Deduct:
.
Monthly grants to residents..........·-······-···................
17,830.00
Transfer to Building Fund..........·-··-························· 100,000.00

31,395.79
8,927.75
17,717.39 $

500.00
58.97
1,850.00
13.32
300.00

Total stocks ............... _............................................-.......

----..-.-..$ 143,611.36

InS:~u!':(.pa!'e 2>--··-·-··-··-----···--·············-···$

lec:Urlti..:
Bonds:
$ 500 Dominion of Canada, 3%, 1959........................·-··········-·····$
75 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 19156....................................
2,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1960..........·-·······················
Increased redemption value of F Bonds........................
300 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1960........................

58,040.93

18.00
Real estate ·---·-··-··········-······-··-·····--······················-········-············_·_ _ __
Total investments ·--··-··-·-··-··············································-·········$
Deduct: Due to Homes General Fund...·-·····-·····-······-········--··-·--·

58,058.93
32,277.57

Balance, July 31, IMI----·-··-··-·-·-··-··--··---·------·-'

25,781.36

Total securities -·-·-··-----··----....................- ......-.••..$
Insurance Policies:
Acacia Life Insurance Company........................................................$
Aetna Life Insurance Company.............................................- ...........
Companions of the Forest of America...-··········--..··-·--·-············
General American Life Insurance Co...·-··-··-··-·---··---·-·--···-·····
Locomotive Engineers Mutual Life & Accident
Insurance Ass'n. ···-······---..······-··-·---·-··-······--··············-··-·······
Marin Mutual Benefit Ass'n······--·-··-··-·---··-··---········-··-----·····
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. - 15 policies...............-.............
Native Daughters of the Golden West..._.......................- ...............
New York Life Insurance Co...·-·-···-·····-··-··---···--···-·-·-··--···
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co•..·-······--------··-·---······-··-···
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund......·-··-····--·-··-··-··-····-··-····--·
Prudential Insurance Co. of America - 12 policies......................
Reliance Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh.........- .....................................
Travelers Insurance Co. of HartforiL............._. __............................
Widows and Orphans Funds:
Alhambra ···-··-··- ··--··················-··-··········-···-·-··-··--··- ··- -·-······- ···
Ben Ali Temple ...........................- ......_.............................................
California Bodies Scottish Rite - 3 policies................................
Masonic Lodges ..........................................................._.....................

31,395.79

Total insurance policies ....................................................

8,927.75

118.90
2,000.00
1.00
471.78
693.00
1.00
1,513.23
1.00
2,000.00
1.00
1.00
874.00
245.84 .
1,000.00
1.00
1.00
3.00
1.00

342

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Notes and Contracts Bec:eivable1
Boucher, Claudia ···---····--··-··-·-··-·····-···········-··--··-······-··-···-··$
Duke, Woodrow E. and Marcella E.---··-··········-··-······-·-··-···········
Ervin Artis and Annie Lee--·-··-······-··········-··-··-·························
Gordon, Francis C. and.Betty M...·-····-············-···--······-······-·······
Hoag, George H. and Esther A..••·--········-··········-··-··-·-··-··-···········
Total notes and contracts receivable.....................- .......$

5,224.79
333.42
4,817.90
6,541.29
799.99

----17,717.39
----58,040.93

Total investments ···-··---··--··-_.___;_·-··········-············-'

'

343

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND
" Mem1948
1949
bership 1945
1946
1947
Name
No.
1 California ·······-········ 546 $1,226.50 $ 512.00 $ 386.75 $ 509.50 $ 649.50
91.50 170.00
100.00
99.00 210.00
2 Western Star--······· 150
67.50 2,409.50 1,325.50 1,355.00 1,544.00
3 Tehama ...............~····· 706
10.00
50.00
91.00
5 Benicia ..................____,........... 213
247 173.50 315.73
106.50 336.50 288.00
8 Tuolumne ···-·-·········
______
,
..
-···
381 160.00 183.50
181.50 248.50 178.50
9 Corinthian
340.50 328.50 361.50
10 San Jose ···-··-····--··· 517 401.00 426.50
117.00 242.00 202.00
12 Yount ................ _................... 463
48.00
60.50
79.00 151.50
13 Nevada ................................. 163 111.50
58.00
89.50
83.00
63.00
14 Temple ..............---····-····· 185 114.00
154.50 114.00 101.00
303
16 Eureka
75.00
159.50 185.00
17 La Parfait~·uiii"O'ii:::: 118 130.00 163.00
22.00
14.00
18 Mountain Shade ...... 49
768.00 322.00 425.00
19 San Joaquin .............. 717 719.50
20 Washington ·······-··--· 724 483.50 700.00 1,155.80 1,095.00 659.00
21 Hawaiian -------········· 486 1,034.50 1,163.50 1,038.00 1,301.10 837.00
395.00 418.50 390.25
22 Occidental -----·---·· 746 281.00 404.50
114.64
85.67
33.35
66.02
23 Madison ·······-··-······· 305
175.00 233.50 170.75
24 Mariposa ······-············ 192 . 181.00 171.50
12.50
22.00
12.00
59.50
25 Georgetown ·--····~-··· 60
619.50
7.50 715.50 480.50
26 El Dorado .................. 239
39.50
19.00
76.50
8.00
27 Trinity ----···-····---·--··· 110
398.15 258.00 303.50
30 Golden Gate .............. 623 388.50 302.50
7.00
31.50
32 Gold Hill ·······-··--····· 101
31.00
53.50
29.50
57.00
64
59.50
33 Ophir ···········-··--···--··
2,124.98 2,312.50 1,857.00
35 San Diego .................. 911 1,643.45 3,382.00
76.50
30.00
51.00
89.00
37 Howard ···········-··-····· 248
30.00
90.50
38 Santa Cruz ·······--····· 441 220.50
157.50 195.00 135.00
717 199.55 235.71
40 Sacramento
1,152.71 776.00 388.00
769.00
372 425.68 246.51
41 Martinez ......
246.00
42 Los Angeles ···-········· 753 666.50 334.00
512.00 721.10 515.00
7.00
74
43 Hiram ·····-·················
44 Mount Moriah .......... 419 337.00 245.00
327.50 325.00 456.00
185.00
74.75
45 Crescent ···········-······· 166
10.00
10.00
46 Texas ·············--········· 51
50.00
14.00
50 Forbestown .......•...... 94
36.00
27.00
51 Illinoistown ···----····· 84
33.00
82.00
48.50
73.50
55 Suisun ·······-······-~····· 184 109.00
115.50
165.50
54.50
56 Volcano ·····-····-········· 53
131.00
57 Santa Rosa -·············· 560 141.10 143.10
167.60 142.50 136.00
58 Union···········-··-········· 684 1,206.00 1,488.50
1,300.00 1,424.10
78.00
53.50
59 Gravel Range .......... 65
69.00
84.00 127.50
39.00
60 Plumas ···········-········· 182 146.50
18.00
61 Live Oak ···-··············· 1041 1,221.00 1,064.50 1,177.00 1,100.00 940.00
64 Natoma ····-··-··········· 180 138.00 162.00
180.50 144.50 170.50
69.75
32.50
64.00
65 Amador ····-········-····· 86
66 Forest
34
68 Morrung··sb:i·:::::::::::: 600 413.50 1,154.00
827.00 846.60 749.50
65.00
70 En~rise ................ 281
20.00
67.25
17.00
16.00
'16 Bear ountain ........ 69
41.00
61.50
83.00
70.00
'18 Calaveras ·---·-········· 106
61.50 150.00
70.00
32.00
'19 Humboldt ···-····-····· 406
156.50
17.00
16.00
8.00
60 Ione
..·--·-····------- 95
63.50
58.00
24.50
18.00
81 Yolo ·-·--·-·--·····---···· 73
31.00
17.00
14.00
17.00
2.00
84 Vesper ·······-······-······· 221
87 Naval ·--···-··-······· 1152 2,057.00 1,643.13 2,161.15 2,116.40 1,683.70
8.00
18.00
89 Rose's Bar ·-·--······· 35
7.00

=::::::::::::

·----·

3H
No.
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Name

Membership

North Star ·····-····-···
St. Helena ···-··-~-···
Henry Clay ..............
Hormtos ····-····-·······
Yosemite ···········-·····
Clay ............................
Oroville ···-·················
Lexington ·········--·····
Arcata ·····-····-····-·····
Pajaro ·········-·············
Chico ..........................
Summit ···············-·····
Eden ..........................
Concord ····-·······-······
Fidelity ·····-····-····-···
Alamo ·····-····-··--·-···
Sotoyome ..................
Table Mountain --···
Lafayette ···--···········
Hermann ..................
Visalia ···-····-··-·······
Nicolaus ··········-·······
Woodbridge ..............
Sincerity ....................
Vacaville ·····-·············
Valley ·············-·········
Pacific ·················-·····
Crockett ·············--···
Curtis ·····-····-······-·····
Grafton ···············--···
Franklin ·····-········-···
Oriental ·····-··-····-·····
Vitruvius ···-····-·······
Abell ···--············-·····
Eel River ...........•......
Lassen --··············-···
Molino ·····-····-····-·····
Woodland ·····-···········
Keystone ·····-·····-·····
Harmony····-·············
Excelsior ····-·············
Alameda ·····-··--·······
R~"."Ood City·····-···
Mission ·····-···············
Elk Grove ..................
Drytown ·····-·············
Antioch ··········-··········
Phoenix ·····-·············
Mendocino ·········-·····
Petaluma ·········-·······
Russian River ...•......
Arbuckle .....................
Clear Lake .................
Sierra Valley ............
Claiborne ..................
Evening Star ............
Keith ···············-··-·····
Oakland ·····-··-··-·····
Northern Light .........
Marin ·····-··-······-·····

1945

1946

64
122
52.00
23.00
78
2.00
4.00
91
45.00
90.50
408 345.00 175.00
91
54.50
314
14.00
464 125.00. 335.00
241
40.00
16.00
346 348.35 219.25
426
26.50 114.00
46.00
45
44.00
382 178.60 207.25
341 197.50 492.00
555 475.50 189.00
352 150.00 138.50
187
139.00
86.50
129 155.00
81.00
210 245.60
205 140.00 171.00
520 1,037.00 1,248.00
18.00
102
50.00
72.75
168
24.00
92
9.50
179 175.00 177.50
2.00
89
61.00
601
592 342.50 292.50
74
34.00
97
22.00
135 215.00
28.50
395 339.50 643.00
117
4.00
65.00
260 221.50 367.50
61.00 141.50
219
74.00
206
88.50
77.00
11.00
169
21.80 588.05
253
26
17
518 282.00 742.00
14.00
26.00
155
530 263.75
695 147.50 855.00
144 253.50 136.50
7.00
6.00
38
292
87.00 103.50
640 703.25 1,611.19
126
13.50
37.75
326 173.00 105.00
113
64.00
38.00
83
54
44.00
45.00
42
20.00
56
22.00
45
170
73.50
932 422.00 189.00
89
61.50
32.50
524 627.00 489.05

1948

1949

84.50
13.50
91.00
183.50
77.00
209.00
250.00
142.00
187.50
183.75

190.06
41.00
56.00
208.00
60.00
55.50
250.00
237.25
73.00
19.26

7.50
109.50
99.50
86.50
347.00
60.50
133.50
300.00
124.50
101.75
197.50

193.93
214.50
232.00
243.00
171.00
38.50

159.36
440.00
228.00
168.50

1947

38.00

162:64

219.00
332.50
184.00
157.00

93.50
172.00 171.00 183.50
1,370.50 1,153.50 1,462.25
24.00
71.50
37.00
27.50 135.25
25.00
7.00
195.50
83.50
75.50
294.00 . 258.50
6.00
22.00
26.00
63.50
72.00
288.50 595.50
48.00
115.00
379.50 379.50
92.00 160.50
199.00 106.00
24.00
37.00
218.00 206.93

199.50
450.00
65.00
20.00
137.50
458.00
74.00
401.00
198.50
121.00
54.00
251.00

21.00
475.00
75.00
345.50
314.50
2i6.00

714.00
100.50
387.00

57.00
61.50
57.00
513.00
1,722.50
101.50

163.00
9.00
1,407.96 1,408.59
82.50
81.0t
69.00
88.00
41.00
73.00
26.00
20.00
44.00
830.50
31.00
537.50

ss:oo
42.50
46.00
634.50
12.00
351.50

210.50
27.00
319.00
819.70
69.50
105.50
38.00
7.00
21.00

-5.00

907.00
20.00
353.00

'

MemNo.
Name
bership 1945
1946
192 Santa Barbara ...•...... 324 513.00 373.50
193 Femdal~ ····:-············· 102
35.50
37.50
194 Mountain View .•...... 319
278.00
195 Buckeye ····-······-····· 135
196 San Simeon .............. 110
is:Oo 184:50
198 Wilmington .............. 529 582.00 742.00
199 Hartley ...................... 233
10.00
200 Truckee ···············-····· 103
83.00
201 Silveyville ·········-····· 152
14.50
202 Pentalpha ...........,...... 564 1,225.50 1,362.13
203 Cot?-fidence ·········-····· 48
81.50
89.00
204 Salinas ·-········-·"'······ 477 205.50 143.00
63.00
205 Olivet···-··-········-········ 107
8.00
206 Stanislaus ...........,...... 560 898.00 301.00
207 Anaheim ·········-··--····· 402 204.00 256.50
208 Rio Vista..................... 146 246.00 334.00
209 King David's .....•...... 414 199.50 284.50
210 Friendship ................ 703 109.75 703.95
211 San Benito ···---········ 152
26.00
11.25
212 So. San Francisco.... 261 122.00 162.00
214 San Buenaventura.. 386 860.00 1,200.00
215 Oak Grove ····-·········· 629 290.00 281.00
216 Doric ···············-········· 511 138.50 363.00
217 Mont~rey ···--··-······· 253 153.00 228.00
218 Mosaic ···············-······· 171
98.50
80.00
219 Speranza ltaliana .... 330 487.50 479.50
220 Downey ·····-···-···-····· 484 671.50 407.35
221 Inyo ·····-······-··-·········· 158 186.50 166.00
222 Roseville ···········-······· 323
64.30
63.25
224 Bakersfield···-··-··-··· 747
1,527.88
225 Brooklyn ·····-····-·-····· 598 213.00 361.56
226 San Mateo ···-········· 427 294.00 363.50
228 Athens ··········-············· 146 101.00
59.00
229 Solano ·········-··-·--······ 601 722.50 601.00
230 North Butte ···-··-····· 180
65.00
88.00
14.00
231 Covelo ·····-····-··········· 64
232 Janesville ·········-······· 129
10.00
31.00
233 Calistoga ·····-····-······· 113 105.00
65.00
234 Hope ···················-········ 125
22.00
235 SUl':prise Valley ··--··· 73
236 Hills Ferry ···-··········· 150 201.80
39.50
237 Guadalupe ···--········· 132 142.50 244.50
240 Colusa ··············-········ 149 160.00
8.00
241 Santa Ana ····-············ 566 188.00 762.50
242 Magnolia ···-··-··········· 385 692.00 875.75
243 Eucalyptus ···-···-······ 426 135.00
25.00
244 Alcatraz ···-··············· 624 374.50
245 Laurel ........................ 222 220.25 376.50
212.00
2.00 579.50
246 Pomona ·······-············· 385

~g ii~~~~~::::::::::::~::::: q~
253 Landmark ···-··-······· 110

~ Reading···-··-·····-····· 197

256 Welcome ·············-·····
258 Lodi ·····-·····················
Penrhyn ········-····-···
252690 Evergreen ···········•······
King Solomon's ··-····
261 Tuscan ······-··-··-·······

189
359
153
608
495
80

60.00
104.00
35.00
400.00
114.00
35.00
61.00
344.00
648.00
7.00

5.00
146.50
300.00
610.50
59.00
232.00
171.50

315

1947
1948
1949
509.50 441.50 404.50
33.00
38.00
86.00
281.00
74.25
109.00 204.00 188.00
15.00 248.50 250.50
851.00 596.00 688.50
15.00
48.50
64.00 67.00
12.00
351.85 308.00
1,530.75 1,462.50 1,213.00
83.00
89.00
68.00
199.00 317.00 239.50
144.50
50.00
2.00
778.65 564.50 729.75
381.50 406.00 338.00
343.00 322.02 269.00
293.50 449.50 602.80
387.50 455.00 471.50
84.50
61.50
79.50
136.00 151.50 189.00
1,302.00 1,015.50 575.00
152.00 297.00 271.00
83.50 102.50
123.50
163.00 179.00 196.35
103.50 145.00 118.00
364.50 351.50 286.00
712.00 811.00 975.85
103.00 333.00 314.00
201.00 294.00
84.00
90.00 793.50 473.00
315.50 204.00 233.00
411.50 372.50 742.50
77.00
89.00 125.00
564.52 467.50 305.50
91.00
7.00 115.50
74.50
14.00
13.00 139.00
44.00
71.50
84.50
50.50
34.00 128.00
104.00
95.00
413.00 200.50 297.50
59.25
47.00
49.00
133.00 1,085.16 1,169.50
891.50 1,025.00 1,068.00
232.50
13.00
309.05 405.00 322.00
242.00 273.50 246.50
380.30 339.50 551.00
33.50 498.00
285.75
168.00
77.50
87.00
151.00
54.50
86.50
30.70
47.40
500.00 274.50
90.50
169.00 242.00
323.50 408.10 172.00
25.00
104.50
273.00 243.00 447.50
171.50 496.50 601.50

346

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327

MemName
bership 1945
1946
243.00
Lompoc ·····-- ···-········ 170
7.50
Hesperian ···- ··-········ 332 232.00 230.50
78.00
Orland · - - · -··-····· 160 118.50
North East ···-····-····· 53
44.75
14.00
Galt ····-·······--········· 69
Durant ···-·····-···-······ 566 566.00 707.15
Olive Branch .....•...... 286
80.00 121.00
Snow Mountain ........ 34
20.00
Pasadena ·····-··- -········ 536 251.00 315.00
Anchor ··· - · -·-······ 508 1,282.65 1,308.54
Arroyo ···--····---········ 132
59.00 146.00
Oakdale-- -··-- . ..... 166
96.50 184.00
Selma ····-··-··- · ···· 209
97.50
So. California -·-······· 515 796.00 1,015.50
Hanford ··--··-- ······ 208 822.70 382.00
Madera ·····- - ··-····-··· 240 131.01 140.00
56.00
Mount Shasta ···-······· 71
7.00
Callayomi ···--····--··· 59
South West·-·············· 369 361.75 318.50
20.00
San Miguel ···-··········· 55
Paso Robles ···-········· 223 232.00 154.50
Winnedumah ............ 170 258.00 108.00
20.00
Maxwell ---··- ········· 64
Elsinore ···- -··--··-··· 158 155.00 172.00
East Gate ···-···-········ 849 661.50 541.50
Santa Paula ···-········· 318 116.50 614.50
Los Gatos ·········-··-··· 273 234.60 276.61
Orange Grove .......... 245 232.00 228.00
62.00
Traver - ·--··-··········· 150
91.00
Mt. Jackson ····-······· 131
···-···
Silver Gate ···-········· 1097 1,072.50 1,981.50
Dunsmuir - ·- ··---····· 295 188.00 191.00
Liberty -----······· 301 312.00 194.50
Redlands -- ---······ 426 152.00 455.50
Ontario ...................... 337 571.00 163.00
Santa Lucia ·····-······· 148 201.00 282.50
Porterville ··· --······ 457 957.50 562.00
Reedley ··· · - -····-··· 155
180.00
Azusa ·····-··-··-········· 226 288.00
Ashlar ··········-··········· 258 226.50 156.00
Santa Monica ···-······· 380 383.00 290.00
37.00 359.00
Monrovia ····-·-······· 287
Delona - · - - ··- ······ 223 260.50 289.50
17.00
Sisson ···- ··--·-······ 108
22.00
Los Banos --··········· 148
74.00
Tehachapi --·····- ······· 186 224.25 266.50
Temescal ···-··-······-··· 190 137.00 144.50
Norwalk ···-····-······· 225 300.00 435.62
Sanger ···-······-··········· 291 270.00 248.00
45.00
Fallbrook ·····-··-······· 111
56.00
Emmanuel ···--········· 79
29.00
Hollenbeck ··--·········· 1099 1,093.50 917.10
South Gate ···---·-····· 678 849.50 889.50
Alisal ·····-···- ·······...... 133 135.50 145.00
Alhambra ···- ··--·...... 614 306.00 1,521.40
Whittier ···-····-········· 623 704.50 1,112.40
Corona ·········--·-······ 480 474.50 951.00
Consuela ···-··-······· 235 165.64 332.46
Needles ·········-··········· 348 465.00
Long Beach ·····-······· 580 392.50 700.00

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1947
332.50
687.50
124.50
49.00
15.00
401.00

1948

1949
546.75
603.50 319.50
148.50
42.00
5.00
5.00
438.22 318.00
86.00 319.50
27.00
16.20
14.00
383.00 970.00 1076.00
1,419.29 1,250.00 1,342.77
246.00
98.00
60.50
119.50
23.00 178.37
418.00 255.75 196.00
1,160.00 1,139.00 1,310.50
364.00 440.50 485.50
202.50 243.50 237.00
96.00
2.00
77.00
25.00
25.00
341.75 348.00 312.50
39.75
55.00
67.00
218.50
92.00 149.00
332.75 358.75 294.72
47.31
74.79
142.00
76.00
75.00
1,065.45 699.00 766.25
550.00 621.75 680.00
252.70 382.23 189.50
101.00 151.00 156.50
8.00
34.50
1,207.65 1,039:50 1,136.50
407.58 222.18 321.50
75.00 231.00 298.50
403.00 265.50 358.00
249.50 220.00 189.00
352.50 220.50 304.50
869.50 807.50 999.00
22.00
7.00
166.50 214.50 245.50
141.00 245.00 196.00
660.00 358.50
179.97
224.25 213.00 230.00
40.50
65.50
73.50
257.10 105.00 121.00
331.00 237.50 228.50
163.00 133.50 148.50
444.90 339.50 243.00
206.00 190.50 221.50
68.00
32.00
3.00
135.00
85.00 163.25
840.00 1,549.50 856.50
107.00 120.00 161.00
335.25 338.25 383.50
566.05
1,187.91
649.00 401.00 724.00
141.17 100.34
385.50 641.00 699.50
441.00 361.50 508.55

MemNo.
Name
bership 1945
1946
328 Redondo .................... 442 194.25 350.00
329 Vallee de France -····· 122 245.00 264.00
330 Kilauea ---··-····-··· 241 674.00 571.00
331 Pacific Grove ·····-·-··· 228 141.00 144.25
332 San Pedro ··········-······ 513 1,066.61 1,256.33
333 Alta ·····-····················· 79
87.50
68.50
334 Covina ···-- ··---······· 299 324.50 409.50
335 West Gate···-··-······· 974 945.50 1,229.50
336 Fruitvale ····-········-- · 910 758.00 476.50
337 Carquinez ··- -··-····· 190 159.00 167.00
338 San Jacinto .......•...... 96
15.00 116.00
339 Fullerton ·····-········· 378
77.00 419.00
341 Oxnard ···-················· 359 283.58 603.15
343 San Fernando .......... 465 400.75 398.10
344 Starr King ·--········· 536 654.25 129.50
345 Brentwood ................ 129
10.00
346 Palo Alto ···-··--······· 655 630.25 837.50
347 McKinley ····- ··-······· 462 217.00 536.75
348 San Bernardino........ 691 169.25 1,158.88
349 Sequoia ...................... 1048 870.50 676.50
351 Palestine .................... 594 563.50 276.50
352 Sunset ····-····-······-··· 408 501.25 321.00
353 Pinole ·····- ···········....... 177
51.00
33.00
354 Presidio ······-·-··-··-··· 543 367.94 167.50
355 Hollywood ·····-········· 1119
356 Mill Valley ···- -········· 404 376.00 218.50
357 Buena Park ···- ···...... 201
14.00 121.00
358 Golden State ............. 876 785.25 699.25
359 Loyalton .................... 88
46.00
17.00
360 San Francisco -········ 315 121.00 206.00
361 Fort Bragg ·····-········· 126
87.75
34.50
362 Charity ··- -····- ········· 137 114.50 116.00
363 Berkeley ·····-- ··-··-··· 653 155.00
365 Willits ···-·--··-······· 148
366 Las Palmas --·········· 932
63. 75 403.50
367 South Pasadena •..... 572 869.00 1,274.00
368 Unity ···- ····-············· 590 658.00 782.50
369 Ocean Park ····--·-··· 480 963.00 1,096.00
370 Amity ·-----····· 471
67.50 351.00
371 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ···----····· 631 246.00 1,177.50
372 Gardena ····-············· 293 178.50 137.50
373 West Los Angeles...... 386 165.25 191.00
374 Jewel - - - - - -··-··· 180
141.50
375 Richmond ·····- ··········· 547 208.00 434.00
376 Francis Drake .......... 306 163.50 251.60
377 Artesia ···-········-····· 147 177.50 230.50
378 Mizpah ···-···--···-····· 435 999.00 1,031.00
379 Fillmore ····-············· 225 434.00 444.00
380 Huntington Beach.... 310
13.00
381 Oceanside ···--··········· 294 293.00 252.00
382 High~and Park. -...... 574 371.00 435.50
383 Oros1 ··········-···-······· 133 247.00 346.00
384 El Centro ···-···--····· 378 388.50 681.50
385 Dinuba ·········--········· 268
69.00 149.00
387 Coalinga - -····-·-····· 340 484.24 347.50
388 Parnassus ···-·····-····· 717 766.00 499.70
389 Palos Verdes ···-······· 717 604.28 638.64
390 Imperial ····- ··-····- ··· 115
53.00 103.00
391 East Belt ···- ·············· 85 127.00
32.00

347

1947
1948
1949
338.00 300.00 209.00
225.00 240.00 250.09
384.00 506.00
149.00 159.50 171.00
1,246.25 1,384.50 1,227.50
139.50 145.00 188.50
280.00 310.75 213.00
1,712.50 1,123.00 887.17
287.00 400.00 335.50
135.75 155.00 140.00
63.06
53.00
179.50 200.50
433.00 238.25 576.88
503.50 738.00 569.25
482.08 229.50 311.50
56.00
64.00
28.00
900.00 1,251.00 1,325.50
319.00 295.20 185.25
335.69 672.90 543.87
861.00 907.50 1,175.00
402.00 484.50 434.00
979.75 835.00 822.25
36.50
68.00
80.00
237.00 538.00 495.00
1,826.50 328.50 695.10
353.00 381.50 414.00
174.25 178.75
743.25 2,498.30 564.00
35.00
40.50
488.00 126.00 462.50
77.50
7.00
132.00 109.50
50.50
388.00 216.31 118.31
1,045.50 919.00 609.50
789.00 1,080.50 531.00
1,204.50 1,173.50 1,202.00
620.87 496.50 510.00
159.50
87.50
654.00
132.00
205.00

718.00 1,199.10
202.25 195.45
249.00 192.00
171.00 173.00
185.00 223.50 230.00
291.00 273.50 182.50
290.04 326.00 282.00
410.43 2,018.07 1,104.50
397.50 537.50 459.00
124.00
28.00
50.00
329.25 357.25 368.36
373.00 401.10 320.00
617.00 280.00
393.50 335.00 133.00
157.50 255.50 120.25
208.65 300.00 695.00
369.50 332.50 490.50
566.11 385.82 132.50
103.00 171.00
71.00
8.50
8.00
25.00

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454

Membership 1945
1946
976
1,757.50
1,980.00
West Lake ····-·········
227.00
Balder ···-····-··-······· 486 418.50
University ............_............ 606 545.50 1,005.50
Turlock ·······-············ 327 118.00 326.00
17.00 368.50
A·p<;>llo ........................ 450
RISing Light .......•...... 961 1,474.40 1,273.95
Fraternity ........._....... 443 191.75
144.00
387.00 1,690.00
Burlin~ame .............. 603
Bay View ····-··-······· 549 159.75 132.00
227.50
Brawley .................... 192 222.31
487.00
Yer-ba Buena ............ 799 484.00
Glendora .................... 135
6.00
97.00
Moneta ·············-·-··-·- 743 941.50 2,041.05
20.00
Burbank .............- ..... 603 1,258.60
320.92
La Mesa ···-·····-·······-.. 440 330.50
40.00
124.50
Sierra Madre .....•...... 133
Honolulu ................ ......... 346 516.50 354.00
Charter Rock ............ 362 197.00 165.00
Perris .......................... 146 115.00 108.00
85.50
Calexico ···-···-·········· 163
340.50
Arlington .................. 374 436.50
860.50
Silver Trowel .......... 381 829.77
Lindsay ...................... 213 204.00 499.50
188.00
Clo via ·····-···--··········· 376 387.00
360.50
Elysian ·---'"-·····••........... 473 351.50
123.00
Upland ........................ 192 207.00
Kerman ...................... 87 104.00 114.00
Inglewood ... _........... 655 227.00 365.50
Eagle Rock ................ 461 513.50 397.00
York····-···········-······· 323 171.50 591.70
10.00
Exeter ........................ 194 574.50
53.00 261.00
Holtville ·······-···-........... 123
61.50
Midwa~ ..........·-········· 473 341.50
14.00
Chino alley ............ 119
San Dimas .......- ...... 167 200.00 235.00
18.00
10.00
Pittsburg .................... 263
127.00
McCloud ···-······---····· 105 261.75
137.00
Alpha ·····-····-·-·-······· 482 208.00
67.00
67.00
Hammonton .......•......
60
84.00
Maricopa ·····--·-········ 180
Fairmount ........ . ............ 486 154.80 176.40
94.00
Claremont ···-·····..···· 111 136.25
Lancaster ·····-·-······· 227 382.00 174.00
Acacia ···-····--········· 58 110.00 145.00
99.00
Tyrian ····-···---........... 149 150.50
Standard ···········-······· 359 177.00 222.00
Coronado ................................... 339 160.25 293.25
905.37
Blackmer ···-······-····· 1144 535.30
101.00
Schofield ....·-··-··-··· 249 298.00
Carpinteria ··-···............ 114 125.00
189.00
Wilshire .......... ...................... 545 833.50 1,162.00
31.00
27.00
La Puente ...........•...... 141
Torrance .................... 357 132.75 160.00
238.00
Mount Diablo ............ 276 203.00
Park···--····················· 486 332.00 452.00
656.50
Van Nuys .................. 582 340.00
Montebello ···-··········· 497 345.10 558.50
San Pasqual .............. 449 182.00 796.50
Bethlehem ·····-·•.............. 317 726.22 339.00
Crocker -··-·····..·•······ 384 122.00 113.00
Name

-

_

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1949
1948
1947
2,032.00 909.60 1,220.00
312.00 452.00 405.50
558.00 710.00 459.00
302.00 175.00 336.25
273.00
354.50 331.50
835.74 1,563.00 791.37
154.00
101.50 171.50
1,498.50 1,088.50 712.00
114.00
54.00 108.00
222.11
100.85 221.50
714.20
474.09 847.50
175.50 100.00
850.15
914.50 934.00
2,756.45 1,040.00 1,217.00
400.50 197.55 412.00
44.00
302.00
173.50
737.00
552.85 823.50
106.00
165.00 155.00
69.00
50.00
125.00
380.00 119.00 167.00
561.50 287.50 414.00
866.31 807.50 1,135.00
345.00
457.80 433.00
215.50 414.25
419.50 406.00
636.00
63.00
184.05
171.00
104.00
121.00 142.00
671.00 . 556.00 418.50
237.50 306.50
348.00
401.25 189.00 200.80
833.00 398.50
486.50
224.50
247.50 180.00
189.00 113.00 353.50
92.50
116.50
210.00 210.00
190.00
56.00
44.00
18.00
157.07 201.08
121.00
451.50 344.50
349.25
69.00
70.00
29.00
46.00
4.00
231.50 133.65
277.75
162.50
48.00
63.00
211.00 182.00
306.75
133.50 132.00
126.00
5.00 111.50
103.00
293.00 167.00 182.00
414.00 529.75
415.00
696.75 1,008.25 866.25
284.50 108.00 379.50
621.00 178.50
498.00 625.76
735.50
48.00
38.00
112.00 278.00 290.16
208.00 265.00
230.00
366.50 408.74
315.00
557.00 505.52
464.75
450.90 498.90
606.22
788.50 850.00
952.77
248.50 422.00 421.00
184.50 166.80

No.

Name

Membership

349

1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
455 Golden West ···-······· 562 211.50 241.50
106.00 238.00
366.50
457 Ramona ...................... 448 222.00 370.50
162.00 252.00
377.00
458 Henry S. Orme ·-····· 660 349.75 993.50
532.00 760.80 458.50
459 Riverbank ···----......... 128
46.00
46.50
51.50
77.00
102.00
460 Mount Oso -·-····-····· 285 108.00
86.00
92.00
93.50
42.00
461 Argonaut .................... 424 175.50 437.50
308.50 316.50 537.50
462 Paul Revere ....._........ 558 634.90
369.00
765.50 738.00 1,123.00
463 Morgan Hill .............. 151
6.50
32.00
35.00 131.00
464 Alta Vista .................. 272
87.50
96.00
192.50 119.50 468.50
465 Center ...............- ...... 474 121.80 239.75
381.00 289.00
158.00
466 Libertas ...................... 520 225.25
309.50
411.50 498.50 493.00
467 Culver City .............. 309 505.00 380.50
262.00 731.00
658.50
468 Rockridge .................. 455 194.00
439.50 267.50
182.00
469 Yorba Linda·····--····· 143 195.00 151.00
172.00 217.00
180.00
470 Lincoln -·-···-········· 343 1,064.50 760.50
775.00 810.50 1,021.50
471 Delta .......................... 455
813.00
411.50 429.00
683.00
472 Maui ............................ 253 574.00 247.50
327.00 198.00 387.00
473 Blythe .........._ ..- ...... 113
86.00
144.44
118.00
474 Victory
285
20.50 228.00
256.25 135.00 258.50
475 America ··--·-······
···--··---........... 504 112.00 340.00
367.50
13.00 297.00
476 Coachella ······-............ 170 380.75
119.00
132.00
191.50
477 Temblor
148 120.00
50.00
57.50
56:00 76.00
478 Thousand ·c;~·~::::::: 464 200.50
186.50
156.00 154.00
189.00
479 Golden Rule ·-··-······· 567 260.50
242.00
399.00 733.50 255.00
480 Fellowship ................ 317 198.80
262.00
63.00
122.10
481 Mt Davidson·····-····· 389 138.50
199.50
354.00 337.00 694.75
482 Clarence F. Smith.... 369 628.35 413.25
696.00 731.00
512.00
483 Bell ..................................___ ,.,._ 567 783.41
879.64
1,006.77 1,110.95
737.00
484 Albert Pike .......~ ..... 252 166.00 113.00
95.00
153.50
110.00
485 Chowchilla ·····--~---·· 136
25.00
44.00
31.00
486 Caledonia ...........- ..... 446 229.50 419.93
542.30 710.66
791.95
487 Vallejo ........................ 387
94.50 386.00
18.00 386.25
255.75
488 Patterson .........- ........ 107
44.00
31.00
5.00
42.50
489 East Bay .................... 380 130.00 157.00
' 199.50 173.00
190.50
490 Corcoran ....._......- ..... 121
37.23
491 Woodstock ......................... 367 151.00
48.00
104.50 162:50 124.50
492 Garvanza ........................... 273
54.00
110.00
225.75 283.00
349.00
493 Atascadero ................ 100 102.50 239.68
407.89 415.13
373.75
494 Acorn···········-······-····· 549 184.50 346.50
659.50 293.50 285.50
495 Lebanon ............... . . . . . . . . 385
72.50
73.50
145.00
78.50
190.00
497 Fremont
477 592.05
376.50
524.00 494.00 400.86
498 Stockton ::::::::::::::::::: 187 171.50 381.00
295.00 284.80
268.50
499 Capital City ···-·········. 428 172.40 298.50
167.50 391.00
350.00
500 Roosevelt ·········--··... 188 103.00
96.50
100.00 109.00
120.50
501 Westwood ·····-··-~·-··· 265
95.00
112.00
131.50 170.00
121.00
502 Harbor ·····--··-····~ ..... 515 163.75 210.50
178.00 190.00 197.00
503 Point
33.50
69.00
118.50 228.00
121.00
..········· 239
504 Seaside····-·········
...................................
484 450.50
955.00
508.00 754.50
706.10
505 Silver Cord ···--········· 477
46.00
45.00
77.50
90.00
700.00
506 Mount Olive ···-········ 1008 2,360.50 2,914.50
2,894.50 2,409.50 1,921.80
507 El Segundo -·---······· 290 259.00 198.00
259.00 151.00 229.00
508 Joppa·················-·······
133.00
71
64.63
69.00
509 Benjamin Franklin.. 344 380.07
199.20
268.00 244.00
4.95
510 Cupertino ····-······
152
38.00
8.00
168.50
91.00
87.50
511
288 340.03
31.00
525.27 240.25
242.50
512 Sunnyvale ····-·-·-··· 404 327.00
191.00
273.50 257.00 360.75
Palms ·····-··--··-·······
513 Cahuenga
..·-···-...... 508 137.00 453.75
98.50 340.00 247.50
514 Argonne .................... 381 382.50
153.00
202.50 187.00 112.00
515 Vermont Square ...... 505 424.20 523.23
507.00 420.44
693.05
518
69.50
73.00
93.50 824.50
Taft ..·--·······--······ 298 101.00

350
No.

Name

Membership 1945

1946

1947

1948

1949
211.50
119.50
640.71

159.25
194.00 139.50
32.00
517 Mount Vernon - ···-··· 227 219.50
98.00
La
Jolla·--······
252
148.00
329.50
518
360.00 573.90
537.50
519 Euclid ···-- ··- ·-·-··· 382 436.00
326.00 435.00
203.50 161.50
520 Ionic - -··-·- -······ 685 387 .00 · 183.50 170.40
623.95 437.50
521 Piedmont ---- --··· 275 488.00 296.00 474.50
427.00 412.24
522 Sunrise ···-····-··-······· 319 362.50
947.00
112.00 316.00
523 Bellflower ···-··-······· 353 591.00
72.00
24.00
71.00 288.90 172.50
247.50 562.00
524 Catalina Island ·-····· 147
42.50
525 George Washington.. 456 417.00
93.00
71.00
64.00
443.25 736.50
526 Bay City ···----····· 342
100.00 237.00
45.00 597.95 594.72
655.60 306.00
527 Covenant ·--- ··-······· 332
548.70 872.00
528 Beverly Hills - --·-.··· 437 531.00 233.00 381.00
248.55 231.08
529 Loyalty ···- ········-·- ··· 424 480.50
411.50
17.00
125.00 163.00
530 Sun Garden ··-····· 490 629.00
111.00 115.00
16.00
28.00
531 Alexandria ····- ·- ····· 158 189.00
69.50
41.00
671.00
11.00
532 Smyrna ·-·--·-···- 94
315.00
210.00
66.00
86.00 143.50
533 Azure ···-·-·-··-····· 231
73.00 1,103.00
66.00
600.00 450.00
534 Forest Hill ···--········· 164 314.00 502.00 600.00
105.00 111.50
535 Alexander Hamilton 222 104.50
95.00
136.00
332.00 239.00
536 Seal Rock ·····--··-··· 177 367.79 495.38 292.07
298.25 348.00
537 Utopia ····- ···-··-·-······ 695 499.75
384.00
368.00
231.00 130.00
538 Ascot ·········-··-··- -····· 332 154.00 106.00 273.50
223.50 139.00
539 Belvedere ···-···-······ 224 178.50 110.00
96.00
83.50
200.14
540 Queen Beach ...--....... 182 108.08
64.50
584.50 497.25
541 H. M. Stephens ·-····· 327 155.00 438.28 799.10
434.00 476.00
542 Lankershim ····- ······· 630 643.50 454.25 600.50
668.32 420.50
543 Signal ···-····-···........-··· 464 357.50 488.00 517.90
142.00 373.50
544 Glendale ···----··· 637 146.00
103.50 143.50
116.50 142.00
545 Jonathan····-···-········ 186 261.00
179.50 122.50
268.50 291.00
546 San Gabriel ····-······ 354 236.00
279.00 297.00
204.00 202.00
547 Arcadia ····-···-··········· 315 201.82 152.00 300.00
397.50 522.00
548 Triangle ···- - ··-········· 237 444.50 531.50 433.50
132.00 205.00
549 Justice ·····-··-··--··-··· 348 176.50 143.50 208.00
120.50 109.50
550 Seaport ···--··-···-······ 231 122.00
75.00 106.50
246.81 323.00
551 Lakeshore ···-·-··-····· 265 146.50 213.50 126.50
204.00 199.00
552 Semper Virens .......... 224 110.50 245.25 351.00
76.00
67.50
554 Educator ···-··········-··· 352 115.50
73.00 131.00
60.00 137.50
555 White Pine ···-···--··· 97 129.00 102.50 199.50
118.00 141.00
556 Fairfax ·······-··--- -··· 295 203.50 364.00 110.00
743.50 562.50
557 Hermosa ·······-··--····· 291 439.00 386.00 572.50
121.75 138.00
558 Point Firmin ·----··· 363 659.15 441.50 173.00
168.00 139.00
559 Craftsmen -·-··-··--··· 418 104.00 167.00 127.00
553.35 385.50
560 Plymouth ···-·--··- ··· 354 198.60 255.96 531.84
25.00 208.50
561 E. San Diego..·-········· 667 157.50 159.00 230.50
610.25 576.25
562 pyramid .................... 274 501.00 381.00 671.09
231.00 196.50
563 South Park ----··-··· 405 246.50
69.50 204.50
391.00 218.50
564 Foothill - - -······ 603 110.00 169.00
519.13 1,158.08
565 West Adams ·········- ··· 298 220.05 230.16
87.23
262.75 257.00
566 James A. Garfield.... 219 518.25 273.50 322.50
282.50
273.66
567 Searchlight ···-----··· 474 278.00 305.20 383.00
274.00 217.50
568 Park Blvd. ···-·--··· 368 389.50 469.50 208.50
98.50
104.50
569 Chateau Thierry •..... 333 142.50 110.20 118.75
229.00 230.50
570 Military Service -····· 339 137.00 300.50 198.50
287.50 310.50
571 Francis K. Shattuck 258 289.00 272.00 423.00
10.00
5.00
572 James Madison -······ 334
18.00
15.00
43.50
329.75
573 Hillcrest ·····-····-······· 70 322.00 501.75 389.50
265.50 382.50
574 S. W. Hackett...-....... 526 175.50
74.00 117.00
371.00 384.50
575 Fort Crook - ·- - ·-··· 143 508.00 433.00 . 400.10
724.00 1,003.00
576 El Cajon Valley........ 208 790.08 873.25 823.50

577 Sunnyside -·--········ 454

351

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.
578
579
580

581

582
583

:::

586
587
588

589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596

598

MemName
bership 1945
1946
1947
Progressive .............. 458 145.00
98.00 179.50
Warren G. Harding.. 427
22.00 237.00 570.75
Santa Maria ···- ········· 106 237.00 235.00 220.50
Security ·········-·--··· 359 239.50 190.50 291.00
89.50
90.00
Rialto ···- ··- ····- ········ 135 117.50
243.00
Wasc~ ·················-··... 262 103.50 405.00
Harding ··········-········· 239 175.00 404.50 738.39
Manchester ................ 356
1,670.85 826.50
Garden Grove ···- ····· 186 1i2:57 193.00 130.00
175.50
14.00
Valley Forge ·····-····· 357
86.00
64.00
El &:reno ·······- ········· 389
2.00
Kaua1 ···-··-··-··-··-····· 123 482.00 369.75 428.00
Co~ass .................... 223
110.00 121.00 184.00
Esc on ···-······-·······- 123 117.00
Tujunga ·--··- ········· 235 248.00 220:00 377:00
All States ............... . 515 443.00 929.00 773.75
Service ···-··-········::. 658 291.00 213.50 305.38
Alexander G. Bell.... 266 420.25 434.00 475.86
Guardian .................. 717 576.00 718.84 942.00
Pearl Harbor ···--····· 551 1,680.75 1,135.00 1,016.00
Carmelita ······-··-····· 301 698.50 378.00 751.50

599
600 ~~ood ·······-··-··-··· 341 563.15 752.79 602.50
93.50
73.50
601
y ···········- ··-····· 146 127.50
65.38 147.27
602 Melrose ···- ··-··-········· 219 101.25
603 Dimond ·······- ·- ····-··· 277 225.00 199.00 185.50
604 Jubilee ·······--- ········· 315
70.00 221.00 192.00
605 Glassell Park ···--····· 397 333.25 340.91 325.00
607 Sojourner ···- ··-··-····· 187 116.00 114.00 289.50
2.00
608 Granada ···-······-- ····· 665 473.46 461.50
609 Provident ···-····--·-··· 374 202.00 569.00 250.40
84.50 109.50
610 Elmhurst ·····-········-··· 217
64.00
611 Canoga ···-- ··-···--··· 202 120.00 142.00 200.00
612 Temple City ···-·-·-··· 321 240.50 288.00 169.00
613 Three Pillars ............ 364 240.50 330.50 346.50
614 Larchmont - ·-··········· 372 649.00 753.20 934.25
615 Hemet ···-··..·-··-······ 145 102.50 101.00
75.00
81.00 125.00 117.00
616 :: EBDolley__________ 194
617
53.00
67.00
ig ear ··-·-··--····· 133
2.00
618 Southland ... _··-··--··· 289 441.00 311.00 327.20
619 Neptune ·- ··--··········· 241 126.19 200.50 149.95
620 Point Loma ···-····-··· 451 471.75 621.00 334.50
621 The Gardens -·--····· 379 194.00 292.75 272.50
622 Atwater ·········-········· 350 331.50 275.00 324.50
623 wenorah ··-···-········· 696 1,111.50 1,115.80 1,205.00
624
84.00
20.00
ortitude ·····-·····-··· 185
74.00
625 Angeles Mesa ····--··· 581 239.00 228.00 325.50
826 Chula Vista --··-····· 307 405.83 314.84 322.50
627
393.00 441.25
628
187.50 390.50
629 Fairview ·--······- ··-··· 247
40.00 567.00 454.50
630 Ingleside ···-··---- ····· 162 100.00
65.50
631 Benevolence ···-········· 270
51.50
38.00
632 ~o;rznal ~eights ........ 519 706.50 700.00 166.00
833 v<_>msettla -·-··-········· 537 144.50 664.00 283.50
834 R ~ctorville ·······-··--· 179 174.75 131.00 222.00
835
iverside ···-··-········· 334 250.50 201.00
838
72.00 203.00 306.50
ohn Marshall - ···-··· 262
837
718.00 720.00 853.00
:r:J~d~~k-=-··-···
354
838
.
-······ 196 102.00 69.00 91.50
839 c omp0S1te
·-··--·-··· 334 244.50 470.00 394.00

~~~.!.~~-~=::::: ~~A g~t~&

i

1948

1949

435.50
254.50

506.00

i9a:oo

252.00
132.00

94.00
337.50
500.00
777.65
2.00
293.00
160.50
467.00

215:50

45o:5o

248:16

757.00
392.88
122.00
150.90
494.95
145.00

i54:oo

1,295.00 616.25
364.50 352.75
407.50 671.80
1,037.00 1,322.90
1,207.00 1,313.00
671.50 795.00
649.00 694.66
90.00
16.00
143.06 124.46
342.50 489.76
153.00 656.00
332.75 344.25
106.00 129.00
541.17 246.00
524.75 502.75
47.00
61.00
173.00 118.00
167.50 196.00
482.00 735.00
888.00 746.50
143.04 105.50
186.50 148.00
77.00
75.00
338.00 215.00
156.25 161.00
370.75 517.87
249.25 330.00
350.50 307.00
1,294.00 3,100.00
104.00 187.00
224.73 191.81
164.00 374.50
305.50 207.50
538.00 612.50
461.25 558.00
84.00
114.00 i47:5o
1,017.75 636.50
1,046.00 969.50
237.27 165.27
415.50 313.00
965.00 535.50
738.00 824.00
112.50 104.50
382.50 319.50

Mem1949
1948
bership 1945
1946
1947
Name
48.00
108.00
640 Veritas ...................................... 118
73.00
130.50
104.00
202.00
471.50
641 James A. Foshay._... 225
272.50
207.00
313.00
661.00
788.75
912.50
642 La Cumbre ···-··-····· 217
280.50
602.75
·372.50
361.50
347.76 318.00
425.45
643 Alta Loma ................ 336
154.50 619.25
172.00
141.00 209.00
644 Lomita ·······-··--·--······ 236
90.50
602.00
500.25
472.50 527.00
645 A. F. E. Irwin............ 247
172.00 144.00 275.00
100.00 220.00
646 Metropolitan ............ 117
414.00
227.00
317.00
647 Hawthorne ................ 294
220.00
355.88
389.96
351.30 393.38
647 Daznascus .................. 488
289.94
372.00
516.95
515.77
451.40 516.60
649 Florence ................................. 439
537.87
548.77
475.77
650 La Brea
259
447.26
555.37
70.00
60.50
66.00
117.00 101.50
651 Menlo Paik··:::::::::::::: 193
227.00
138.00
214.50
216.00
182.25
652 Crescenta Valley .... 334
19.00
23.00
16.00
653 Fontana ···-··········---· 252
210.50
151.25
117.00
208.50
188.50
654 Jordan ······--············· 323
157.50 301.95
249.96
167.00
175.00
655 Monte Vista .............. 521
166.00 101.00 162.00
41.00
123.00
656 Citrol ·······-·······-·---··· 168
657 John D. Spreckels.... 562
824.00 1,099.00 919.50 1,291.65 708.59
10.00 101.00
23.50
44.00
5.00
658 Livingston ................ 120
45.00
64.0069.00
659 La Habra .................. 160
65.00
171.67
45.00
258.00
660 Baldwin Park ···-····· 129
93.40
134.00 144.00
56.10
661 Malta ·············-··-······· 217
107.09
2,872.50
662 H~~Y Knox.,.......... 424 3,266.00 1,913.76 1,500.00
60.00
311.50
94.60
105.50
94
663 OJa1 ·······-··········-·······
214.00 102.00 177.50 135.00
75.00
665 Kaweah ...................._..__..__ 102
315.00
199.75
133.00 142.00
228
244.75
666 Reseda
431.00
861.00 1,269.00
296.75
291.50
667 Meridian··:::::::::::::::: 427
380.88
321.99
249.50
431.96
336.05
668 San Gorgonio ~--······· 207
95.50
111.00
111.00
94.00
140.50
669 John P. Jarman........ 222
297.00
461.00
390.00 572.00
101.00
670 Greenleaf ·············-··· 398
20.00
25.00
25.00
29.00
25.00
62
671 San Clemente ..........
142.00
585.50
329.00
400.00
672 Laguna Beach .......... 173
204.00 154.50 220.00 408.50
147.50
673 Far West ···-······-····· 286
629.00
1,207.50 710.00
674 Los Cerritos ···-······· 271
584.00
991.50
617.50
381
520.00
675 Modesto
123.00
25.00 238.00 204.50
145.75
676 Willow aien·~:::::::::: 249
537.00
525.50
145.50 129.00 594.00
677 Liberal Arts ···-··-··· 252
757.01
375.73 464.00 645.10 736.06
376
678 Altadena
133.00 200.00
26.50
679 Canby Cro;s·~::::::::: 115
106.00 210.50 229.00
307.50 324.50
131
680 Carmel
162.50 130.00
66.00
152.50
116.50
681 Dos Palos ···-··-··-··-· 94
325.25 502.50 452.84 427.25
376.51
682 Barstow ..................................... 229
36.00
22.00
46.25
683 Redwood Empire .... 70
132.50
l<io.5o 174.00 169.25 254.00
684 Trona ·-----···········--··-·· 123
241.50 212.00 500.00 584.50 454.50
685 San Marino ···········-· 279
122.50
104.50
152.50
17.00
94.00
686 Albany ···-·-···-··-····· 143
173.50 324.50
302.00 310.00
82.00
687 Vista ···-······-··-·-····· 196
386.00
153.00
120.50
688 Oildale ............._..__............._ 121
56.00
46.00
57
45.00
689 Pahona
72.00
304.00 375.50
690 San Carlos .......:........ 159
342.00
400.00
406.00
691 Indian Wells Valley 154
87
18.75
65.00
692 Travelers
3.00
113.25 296.50
693 Palm Spru"i°g~·~::::::: 92
114.18
64
130.00
694 San Antonia ···-··-···
125.00
695 Meudel .................................. 62
50.00
185.00
88
696 Crossroads
103.00
697 St. Elmo ....:::::::::::::: 37
210.00
698 Wm. D. Stephens·-··· 38
109.50
U.D. Ponderosa ···--·-······· 54
141.00
U.D. Bixby Knolls ............ 70
71.59
U.D. Santa Ynez Valley.. 30
69.00
U.D. Rosemead ···-··-···-···· 35
U.D. Westchester ···-··-····· 25
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1947
$186,398.55

.

190,543

Cash•........- ...•...$191,319.68

1948
' $187,588.26

1949
$191,319.68

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS

1947
43,708

1948
47,714

1949
52,998

TESTAMENTARY GIFTS

Bequests of cash have been received as follows, up to July 31 1949·
Estate of:
•
·
Wallace E. Bruce (Eagle Rock 422)
.
Grover Burdick
······-················-···············-······-··-·-.$ 1,000.00
James L Goode <Meii=C>;e·eoi)"··-··················································--············· 2,848.79
Emily Lehners
···-··-······-··-··-··-········-··-·····-··-······-·····- . 300.00
Florence M~ McLa°Ug:hji"i;..............................................................................
2.65
Catherine Oliver
··-······-·······································-······-······---··· 5,000.00
Charles c. Pittam "ischotiei"ci"443)"·····----·······...............................................
9.10
J. B. Rothschild (Fidelity 120) ···-··········-··············-······-··········-······-··· 5,000.00
Elizabeth J. Sanford
···---······-··-·······--······-·-···-·-······-·-··-·- 1,500.00
John Tonningsen (Ori~niaTi44j·························--·················'····················· 5,ooo.oo
Harry L. Wilcox (King so1omon;;-2aor-·-··-----···---··-- 3,008.91
Rachael M. Winsby...............
·---·-······-··-··-··-··---······-·-···
500.00
Julius Wittich (Berkeley 3535·······-··················--································..······• 7,500.00

Total

100.00
···-·-··-······························--······-··-··-··················-··········-·-·-'31,769.45

.

-·---·····-··---·······----··········-·····-·-

MEMORIALS

·------------

·-·--·-·------

353

David Boucher
Alvin G. Briggs
Jess H. Cathey
A. D. Cranstoun
Lowell 0. Dixon
Sara Frazier
G. E. Harrison

,

I

Frank J . McEniry
Dr. Harry Martin's Mother
Emery H. Reynolds
Harvey E. Sparrow
Melville C. Threlkeld
Herman Zw-ang

HONORABLE MENTION

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per mem~
her. (Such contributions were made by 90 Lodges) :
No.

Lodge

Members

3
iieh~~d~············································..··--·······························
26 San
- .......- ......................................... ..........................................................
35 M rt.Diego .....................
..................- ................. _..............................................................................................
41
56 v:Ic~~z ·····················-············-································-···········
·····-······································--··········-·······················
128 v· l '
s~~ui~··-·············································································
201 Pentalpha
......................................................................... ___ _

706
239
911
372
53
520
152
202 Downey
........................................................__..___.. __ ........... __...____ ,...,... _.__ ··-···
2%0
..... ......................................____._.._... _...,_................._______.,_______ .._______ 564
484

Total
$1,554.00
480.50
1,857.00
769.00
165.50
1,462.25
308.00
1,213.00
975.85

351

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

237 Guadalupe -----·-·-··--··--·-··-··--·--· 132
241 Santa Ana --·;,.····--·-···-··--····-··--··--·-·--· 566
242 Magnolia ·---··-·-...:..·---··--···-·-------··-··-··---- 385
262 Lompoc -··--··
··-··----··---·-··-- 170
272 Pasadena - - · - - · - - - - · - - - · - - - - -·-····-·-- 536
273 Anchor -·-·-·----··-··-··-·-··-··--··-·---··--·--- 508
278 Southern California ··-··-··-·----·-···-·-·-------·- 515
279 Hanford ---··---··-·-----··---·-·-·-···-·- 208
291 Santa Paula ···-···-··········--····-·---·--··-··-·-··-- 318
302 Santa Lucia -·-··-·-·-··-··-··-··-·----··------·--·-··-··· 148
303 Porterville --------··-·········-······-·-··---·--·---- 457
326 Needles
---·-·------·-··---······--··-- 348
329 Vallee de France --····-·---··-·-··---·--····-·-·-··· 122
332 San ~edro -·--···----·----··-------- 513
79
333 Alta _ .
346 Palo Alto
-----·--··- - - - - ··- - ··· 655
352 Sunset - - - - - - - - - - · · - - - - · · - - · - - · 406
368 Unity -~------·---··-·---·--·--·--·-·· 590
378 Mizpah - - - · - · · - · -··--·-·--··---·---; - - 435
379 Fillmore -~-----··-·--··-----·-·~--·· 225
383 Orosi
--··-··-·----··----···--·-·--- 133
387 Coalinga
---·--·--·····-·-··--···----·· 340
406 Burbank -~··---·---···----·· 603
408 Sierra Madre
-------·--------··· 133
409 .Honolulu - - - - : . . - - - - · - - - - - - - - - · - - · 346
381
415 Silver Trowel - - - - · - - -______
- - - · -___:;..
--- ··_-·_
_
194
424 Exeter
58
438 Acacia
··------449
452 San Pasqual - - ·
-··-·-------462 Paul Revere - - · · - - · · - - - - - - - - - - - · ····-··- 558
467 Culver City --·--·---·-----··-··~-·-·-- 309
470 Lincoln
-··-··--·-··--··-·----:...... 343
493 Atascadero
··----·-·--·-·-----··· 100
516 Taft
··- · - - · · - - - - - - - · · - · · · 298
524 Catalina Island --·- - - - - - - -···--·--·-·--··-··· 147
·-·---- 332
527 Covenant _:___________
529 Loyalty
·-·· - · - - · - · - - - · · - - - 424
533 Azure ··-·-----··-·-··········- ··-·----·-···---·-;.. 231
535 Alexander Hamilton --··-·-··--··-·--·--·-·-·- - - -· 222
545 Jonathan - - - · -·- - · - · - - · - - - - - - - - 186
566 James A Garfield - ·-·--··_:---··-----·-- 219
575 Fort Crook · · - - - -·- · - - - · - · - - - · - - 143
454
577 Sunnyside - - - - - - - · · - 580 Santa Maria - ·- - - - · - · - · - · · - - · - - · - · - - 106
585 Manchester _
- - - - - 356
586 Garden Grove
··--·- - - - - - - 186
589 Kauai
-..
.
.. 123
595 Alexander G. Bell - - -··--·-·-··········--··- - · - 266
551
598 Pearl Harbor
-·--------599 Carmelita ....
- ·----··-··-·--- ---·-·- 301
600 Lynwood
--··------------··-- 341
604 Jubilee .......
··-··-··---·-····----- 315
613 Three Pillars - - - · -··-··-··-··-··-·--·--·-·-- 364
614 Larchmont - - - - - · · - - - · - - · - · · - - - - - - - 372
623 Menorah ---··-·--·--·-··--····-------· 696
"
....
250
628 Truth -------..---~629 Fairview
- ···-·------·--- 247
636 John Marshall - - - ·- - · - · · - - · - - 262
637 Palisades
--··- 354
641 James A. Foshay - - - -·- -- ····· - - - - - 225

--<---··--·--··--·--··

....-

______

297.50
. 1,169.50
1,068.00
546.75
1,076.00
1,342.77
1,310.50
485.50
680.00
304.50
999.00
699.50
250.09
1,227.50
188.50
1,325.50
822.25
1,202.00
1,104.50
459.00
280.00
695.00
1,217.00
302.00
737.00
1,135.00
486.50
126.00
952.77
1,123.00
658.50
1,021.50
373.75
824.50
316.00
736.50
872.00
671.00
450.00
373.50
1,158.08
382.50
1,003.00
450.50
757.00
392.88
494.95
671.80
1,313.00
795.00
694.66
656.00
735.00
746.50
3,100.00
612.50
558.00
535.50
824.00
471.50

6452 ALa FC.wE.
nb~-:------········-······-··-·-··-····-·"'217
w 1.1.l· · - -.................
.&.&.

*~ !;:~~~::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::=:::::::::::::::::::

247
117
424
674 Los Cerritos
-·-··-·-················································-······· 173
677 Liberal Arts ···-··------...................................... . ............................................. 271
252
376
131
123
159
693 Palm Sprmgs
··-··························· 154
694 San Antonio ·---······························································
92
64
695 Meudel
·---·-··-····················································-···
696 ~
..............______________·-······-··- ·----···
62
697 St. Elm0
- ---------··········-···········--···············-········-······ 88
37
698 Wm. D.
U.D. Ponderosa
········································ 38
54
70
30

~ ~1;~~\~:~~~-:~:~=:~i~~}=~-i~~~

•

Stephe~·-:-~:::::::::::::::::::::········································

g£: t!~r ~~"t~~;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

(
"

355
661.00
602.00
273.00
2,872.50
400.00
629.00
525.50
757.01
324.50
254.00
375.50
406.00
296.50
130.00
125.00
185.00
103.00
210.00
109.50
141.00
71.59

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
DECOTO, CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT 1948-1949
Names of Residents-MEN-Average age 77.95
Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Adams, Harrison ..........Nov. 29, '46 Orange Grove....293 Orange ..................85
Albers, George R ...........Feb. 17, '45 California .......... 1 San Francisco ....81
Alseth, Lars ................... .Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........ 75
Alsing, Fred W ...............Oct.11, '47 Herman ..............127 San Francisco ....74
Anderson Chas. A .........Nov. 19, '36 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............86
Anderson, Wm. A. ........June 22, '42 Chowchilla ....... .485 Chowchilla ..........65
Andrews, Frank H .........Apr. 25, '42 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............79
Archer Ernest E .............Jan. 30, '36 Palos Verdes ....389 Long Beach ........82
Ashworth, Fred D .......Mar. 26, '49 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ...... 78
Baer, Reubin E .............June 25, '42 Sotoyome ..........123 Healdsburg ..........82
Barton, Louis G .............Dec. 24, '43 Concord ..............117 Sacramento ........75
Beale D. Grant................June 4, '46 Los Gatos .......... 292 Los Gatos ............83
Blanton, John S .............July 27, '48 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco .... 81
Boggs, Fred'k H ............ .Aug. 10, '47 Bethlehem ....... .453 San Fl'lancisco .... 74
Bray, William ................Sept. 1, '45 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................81
Briggs, Herbert ............Oct. 28, '48 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno .................. 76
Burke, Harold E ............ .July 27, '49 York ....................423 Los Angeles ···-··-56
Cassady Earl J .................Feb. 3, '36 G. Washington..525 San Francisco ....78
Casterline, Myron ........Nov.16, '32 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............84
Childs, Clarence E ...........Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ............89
Cohl, Benjamin ............Mar.15, '48 Bay City ............526 San Francisco ....71
Collins, Wm. W ...........Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco .... 83
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan.11, '42 Apollo ................396 Alameda .............. 73
Conway Winn P .............Oct. 21, '45 Roseville ............222 Roseville ..............74
Cowan, Will E ...............July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........80
Cox, Leavitt H ...: ........... Sept. 8, '48 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco .... BO
Cullen, Alexander ......... .Feb. 4, '36 Hollywood ........355 Hollywood ..........87
Date Harrington ............Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ................601 Portola .................. 81
Deichmiller, Conrad ..... .Aug. 3, '45 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ....85
Dixon, Edgar A. ............ Nov.19, '48 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............74
Donovan, John' ............June 25, '48 Point Firmin ....558 San Pedro ............80
Dowdall Fred'k W ........ .Aug. 3, '43 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................69
Dowdle, Everett ......... .May 18, '48 Yerba Buena ....403 Oakland ................80
Engelbrit, Niels ............Nov. 17, '44 Pinole ..........c••••••• 353 Hercules ................ 74
Erwin, Lewis J .............July 28, '41 Olivet ..................205 Coming ................93
Eybs, Louis ..................Nov. 12, '45 Fairmount ......... .435 San Francisco ....67
Fairrall Percy ................May 23, '48 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............61
Felton, Wilson K. ............July 1, '48 Calexico ........... .412 Calexico ..............82
French, George ..............Apr. 7, '49 King Solomon's 269 San Francisco ....81
Frost, Harold G ............... Nov.1, '45 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........59
Garfield, Walter P ........ .Aug. 14, '48 Victory ..............474 San Francisco ....78
Garrick, Walter J .............Oct. 2, '47 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........86
Geibel, George F ...........May 12, '39 Fairmount ....... .435 San Francisco ....75
Gillman, John E ...........May 28, '47 Argonne ............514 San Francisco .... 72
Graefner Leopold ...- .. .Nov.17, '48 East Gate ...- .....290 Los Angeles ........91
Graham, Eugene ........... .Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard ..............341 Oxnard ................83
Greaves, Walter ............Oct.18, '32 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............80
Gregory, Geo. W ...........Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........83
Halpin, Robert L ...........Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel...415 Los Angeles ........78
Hamann, Ernest A. ........May 19, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ....79
Harth, Arthur P ............. Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay ..............416 Lindsay ................76
Heidt Wesley ..................Aug. 5, '39 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ....84
Helmet, Victor ..............Sept. 8, '48 Mountain Shade 18 Downieville ........76
Hiltner, Harry B ...........Aug.17, '40 Fairmount ........435 San Francisco ....82
Hollman, Harry T .........July 15, '48 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco .... 72
Hughes, Henry J ...........Dec. 26, '35 Fairmount ....... .435 San Francisco ....79
Hullinger, Frank ........Aug. 26, '40 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................72
Hyman, Milton ............. .Dec.15, '47 Starr Kin·g ........344 San Francisco ....63

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I

'

357

Name
Admi'tted
Lodge
No
Town
Age
Jack, Chas. P ...................Jan. 9, '38 Pr 'd'
354.
San Francisco .... 70
Jefts, Benjamin ............ Oct 27 '48 J es} IO ··············
Jo!inson August ............ Aug 4• •44 .J-~b_ce ................549 San Francisco ....76
Jomer, Wm. B .................Feb ii' .47 M i::10n .............. 169 San Francisco .... 76
Jones, Harry s ...............May 10• ,47 Plarm -··-·············191 San Rafael ..........85
Kaufmann Emil H
Ma 19• •48
umas ················ 60 Quincy ..................82
·······Novr. 23'
East Ba¥ ············489 Berkeley ..............84
LaHana, Victor ............
'48 L
Lawrence Edward s Mar· 22 • ,47 ~arfa1te Un. 17 San Francisco ....70
Lawson Andrew N ... .'.".".Dec: 30' '48 1
c~~ ewood ..........421 Inglewood ............57
Lean_ied, Samuel ............Apr. 8; '48 Sanonado ............441 Coronado .............. 73
Leavitt, Melville ......... .Dec. 23 •48 Eur Pedro ..........332 San Pedro ............88
Lewis Fred S
Jul 2 • ,
eka ···-········· 16 Auburn ................ 78
· '
················· Y 5• 49 Argonaut
461
LewLS Wm· ··········•·········JulY 13• '45 East G t ··········290 San Fl'lancisco ....81
Los Angeles ........77
Mason, George ............. .Dec. 23 '48 Oakl a e ··········
Matthews, Elbert C .....July
'3 5 La and ..............188 Oakland ................ 78
Mceathron John G .......Aug. 19 •48 Cor Mesa ............407 La Mesa ................81
McGuire, Charles ........July 12; ,49 Par onado ............441 Coronado ............50
Mearns John C
M 3 ,
k ....................449 San Francisco ....66
M · hs'
············· ar. • 47 Golden Gate
30 ~an Francisco .... 75
~ll1c ner fred'k ........ Mar. 16, '46 Brooklyn
······
225
MI· er' Louis C···············Oc t · 30, '48 Doric
akland ................ 79
··········.216
Mills ' John ······················M ar. 8• '46 Mill Valley
···-············ 356 San Francisco ....69
Mill Valley ,.......73
Monson
· Edward ..........S ep t · 20' '48 Fellowship ....... .480 ~8fll~nd ................85
Morr1son
Wm. F .........June 27 '32 Sol
········
•,
Nathan Louis
J
ano :·············--229 a eJo ..................87
'
················ une 4 49 Starr Kmg
344 San Francisco
74
Nixon Robert D ............ .Apr. 25' '47 Be
········
•
Over Sirwell c
J
,
ll
....................
483
'
............... une 4 47 Santa Ana
241 Bell .........•........
~:illia Ana ............85
Palmer,' James ..............Aug. 14' '47 Salin
········
Park Burnett c
J
.as ................204
as ..................87
28 • •44 Seaside
une
504
·
·············
Long Beach ........77
Pickett Frank A
J
11' '47
·
;·············
Plato john
··········· an. ''
Friendship ........210 San Jose ..............82
'
......................Feb. 5, 48 Long Beach
327
Long Beach ........85
Porter, Wm. G .................Aug. 8 '46 Ut ·
········
Potter Frank L
N 6• •46
opia ···:··········--537 Los Angeles ·····--75
Pou et Eu
··············· ov. ''
Temple City ...... 612 Temple City ........85
Q -{
gene ..............Oct. 26, 37 Catalina Isl
524
u1 ty, Frank ................. .Feb. 1, '33 Friendship · ····210 Avalon ............... _65
Reaper• Robert W·········May 14, '39 Starr King ········344 San Jose ..............95
San Francisco .... 71
Reed Samuel B
M 2 '4
········
Rixe::i Ja
············· ar. •, 6 Fr. K. Shattuck..571
..............82
Ro ers mes B .................Jan. 4, ,47 Redwood City .. 168 Berkeley
g , Albert E ...........Feb. 11 48 Elysian
418 Redwood City .... 78
Rogers • Earl W ...............JulY 27' '49 Harbor ················502 Los Angeles ........71
Schemmerling
;···············297 Richmond ............ 70
. h ·
• Fred'k ··N ov. ...,..,, '47 Dunsmu1.r
Dunsmuir ............ 77
S chl IC
tmg Martin
M 16 '35
··········
Seifert · Ott' E
······ ay ' ,
Seaport ..............550 San Francisco .... 76
243 Hayward ..............88
'
o ...............Mar. 19, 49 Eucalyptus
Slagel .Robert B ·············O ct . 28, '3 8 Parnassus ········388
San Francisco .... 71
Spaulding, Horace R. .. Nov.17, '41 Pa
··········
Stevenson John E
J l 18 •47
massl!s ..........388 San Francisco ....84
Stewart j
o········· u y ' , Starr Kmg ........344 San Francisco .... 83
.
, ames .........Feb. 20, 44. Calaveras
78
S trmson Cha
1es ..........F e b . 12, •49. McCloud ··········430 San Andreas ......78
.
r
Tambs Em1l
' ' Alcatraz ..............
············244 Mccloud ..............78
T
'
················ S ept. 15, ,46
Oakland ................84
TI;~~~man, Henry ......Dec. 29, ,38 Oriental .............. 144 San
....88
111 ChicoFrancisco
.
, Jesse G ........... S~t.13 46 Chico
....................87
T ilsner H enry ................ ar. 2,' •46 Crockett
·····--······-·139
San FNmcisco .... 78
T od d Albert
D
19 •38, Honolulu ············409 Honolulu .............. 79
T osy • Anton . ··················Seec.
t
23'
'
············
• Joseph
Io ·············· P . , 37 Speranza Ita'la 219 San Francisco .... 82
Tu ttle
Mar. 17 ' 46 Las P.almas
··366
Fresno ..................77
V anderwerker ················
L. ........Apr. 13' '47 Al t
······
Vorsander Ed
d
J
10' '
ca _raz ..............244 Oakland ................78
,
war .... une
371Mart1nez ············ 41 Martinez ..............81
Walles AJ ohn
Wallis'
F ...............Dec. 11,' ;45 Golden State
.... 358 Los Angeles ........90
,
braham
...........
.Nov.
2,
47
idway
426 Taft ........................65
W arren
. , G eorge ............. .Apr. 2 '46 vergreen............. .259 Riverside
..............89
Watkms w·1f
··········457
. I ord ..........A pr. 11,' •47 amona ..............
Monterey Park ..82
;li~~n, Sidney Jr.........Sept. 9, '48 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ....81
ms, Chas. F .........Aug. 24, '46 ockridge ..........468 Oakland ................87

10:

:.::::as

r

359

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Willis, Walter H ...............Dec. 7, '45 Oakland ...........-188 Oakland ................72
Wood, Drew LaF.......... nec. 31, '45 Visalia ................128 Visalia ............... _ 72
Young, Theodore H .........Jan. 4, '47 Fremont ........... .497 Oakland ................85

Name
Admftted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Goodwin, Emma ..........June 13, '48 Vermont Sq.....515 Los Angeles ........76
Gowen, Laura ·--··-·····Jan. 31, '48 Palestine •..- .......351 San Francisco .... 84
Graham, Alice M ..........nee. 4, '48 Oxnard ···-··-···--341 Oxnard ..................78
Grant, Lillian A. ............Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown ........75
Green, Nellie J .............Dec.10, '44 Bethlehem ....... .453 San Francisco .... 80
Griffith, Rose L. ........Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City ............83
Harris, Helena G .........July 12, '46 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................86
Harris, Louise C. ........Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ................ 136 San Francisco ....74
Harver, Sarah C .........Sept. 14, '47 Reading ..............254 Redding ................79
Hawkms1..Louisa ........June 26, '48 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................81
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............78
Henderlong, M. . ...........June 4, '46 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............77
Hewitt, Frieda Z ......... Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ....65
Higgins, Rhoda J ........ .Feb. 17, '48 Calistoga ............ 233 Calistoga ..............85
Hill, Catherine ............. .Apr. 26, '48 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........69
Howland, Joanna ........Mar.10, '48 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............86
Huber, Tillie ..................July 7, '49 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ....84
Hyatt, Nannie S .............Feb. 13, '48 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........83
Hyman, Loretta ............Dec.15, '47 Starr King ........344 San Francisco ....58
Jack, Mary ....................June 1, ;31 McKinley ..........347 Richmond ............82
Jackson, May R. ............Aug. 27, 25 Lompoc .............. 262 Lompoc ................90
Jebe, Elise ....................Mar. 10, '48 San Francisco ..360 San Francisco ....77
Jensen, Alice ................Aug.16, '48 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ....78
Johnson, Jane H. .. ........Jan. 6, '34 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ....83
Joly, Evalyn ....................Feb. 6, '47 Occidental ........ 22 San Francisco .... 84
Jones, Elsie ..................Jan. 26, '49 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............76
Kapp, Carrie E ....... :.....July 16, '49 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............77
Kauffman, Eda B ........ nee. 7, '46 Alex. Gr. Bell ..595 Los Angeles ........67
Kaufmann, Augusta ....Mar.19, '48 East Bay ............489 Berkeley .............. 80
Keenan, Effie ................July 17, '33 Jewell ................374 San Francisco ....72
Kidder, Hallie D...........Dec. 2, '46 Torrance ............447 Torrance -·----·---82
Krejcik, Otilia ................Jan. 25, '49 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................79
Krejcik, Rose ................Feb. 16, '48 Fairmount ·-··----.435 San Francisco ....74
Lane, Edith B. .. ......... .Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........75
Langenberger, C........ .Apr. 26, '47 Jewell ................374 San Francisco ....84
Larson, Alice B .............Jan.18, '47 Balder ................393 San Francisco ....71
Lewis, Elizabeth ............Jan. 4, '47 Crockett ............ 139 San Francisco ....80
Long, Mary ....................Jan.10, '49 Friendship ........210 San Jose ..............93
Lowell, Lillian ............ Sept. 29, '46 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ....88
Mackenzie, May: ..........June 30, '41 Bay View ..........401 Oakland ................71
Maltby, Sarah E. ______ nec.16, '39 Chico ..................111 Chico ....................79
Mann, Bertha ................June 10, '33 Naval ............~ ..... 87 Vallejo ..................81
Mariner, Helen W .........June 6, '46 Hartley ..............199 Lakeport ..............81
Martin, Mary J ............nee. 4, '41 Franklin ............143 Courtland ............76
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............77
McCord, Zidana ............Oct.18, '46 Santa Rosa ..........57 Santa Rosa ..........74
McCully, Gertie M. ....June 16, '46 Educator ............554 San Francisco ....73
Mccurry, Alice ............Nov. 27, '48 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........86
McDowell, Alice M .... .Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................73
McGarry1...Marion ..........June 2, '48 Catalina Isl. ......524 Avalon .................. 61
Mciver, .!!.illa W .............July 9, '48 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............74
McLean, Lucy A .........Nov. 28, '34 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ....73
Mears, Margaretta ....Sept.17, '41 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........68
Merrill, Ivy L ...............Jan. 25, '41 lliinoistown -...... 51 Colfax ..................70
Monro, Eddith C .........Mar. 16, '46 Al~ha ..................431 Richmond ............81
Morgan, Martha L .....Sept. 1, '44 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ....81
Newman, Susanna ........June 4, '29 Antioch ..............175 Antioch ................87
Nielsen, Este M. .. ..........Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................71
Noble, Grace F .............July 4, '32 Trinity ................ 27 Weaverville ........ 89
O'Donnell Florence ....June 1, '43 Durant ................268 Berkeley .............. 86
Otis, Ethel E .................Mar. 22, '48 Silver Gate ......296 San Diego ............66
Palmer, Elizabeth ........Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................82

358

Names of Residents

WOMEN

Average Age 78.81

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Abbey, Emma H. ............Mv. 4, '48 Hemet ................615 Hemet ..................80
Alexander, Mary ............May 1, '48 East Gate ..........290 Los Angeles ........91
Allen, Ida ......................Feb.17, '40 Balder ................393 San Francisco ....81
Ames, Clementina ....... .Mar. 8, '41 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ....87
Anderson, Helen ........June 23, '49 Live Oak ------··· 61 Oakland ................81
Aver, Ida M .................Mar. 4, '44 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley ......79
Aydelotte, Zana ............June 12, '49 East Gate ..........290 Los An·g eles ........84
Baker, Annie J. .. ......May 15, '48 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................73
Barnes, Elaine G .........July 7, '34 Liberty ..............299 Santa Clara ........79
Barton, Annie N .........Aug. 27, '33 Truckee ..............200 Truckee ................97
Barton, Grace A. ..... :..Dec. 24, '43 Concord .............. 117 Sacramento ..........60
Bausch, Ella A. ............Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................85
Bertram, Annie L ..... Sept. 20, '42 Dul'ant ................268 Berkeley ..............87
Blakiston, Edith ............Apr. 4, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ....81
Blank, Maude H ..........Sept. 28, '46 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........79
Boorman, Lillian ............Dec. 4, '48 San Pasquel ......452 Pasadena ..............73
BI1adic, Elizabeth ..........June 3, '44 Golden Gate .... 30 San Francisco ....57
Brockman, Katherine ..Feb. 23, '43 Palo Alto ..........346 Palo Alto ............76
Brod, Laura H. .. ........Sept. 28, '46 Fidelity .............. 120 San Francisco ....86
Brown, Lima C .............May 25, '34 Bethlehem ....... .453 San Francisco ....92
Brown, May M ............ .Nov. 29, '42 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento ..........77
Burnett, Ethlan R. ..........Feb. 9, '36 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................74
Carnall, Louise M .........Dec. 1, '45 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ....77
Cartwright, Isabella ....July 15, '49 E. San Diego .... 561 Ela.st San Diego....78
Casterline Mary A. ....Apr.10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............76
Cavins, Kittie E .........Aug.13, '44 San Diego····--··- 35 San Diego ..........75
Chappell, Margaret ......Aug. 8, '46 Liberty ...........-.299 Santa Clara ........85
Chase, Aimee C .............Dec. 3, '41 Bethlehem ........453 San Francisco ....80
Clute, Frances E .............Dec. 11 '48 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ..........72
Congdon1.Jessie B .........Apr. 3, '45 Calaveras .......... 78 San Andreas ........75
Costain, 1viattie L .........June 10, '40 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ___________73
Cowan, Anna E .............July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........83
Crowley, Mary A. ........Sept. 28, '46 Mt. Jackson ......295 Guerneville .......... 82
Cundell Isabel ............Dec.16, '44 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........74
Damner.i.TJennie ............Aug.27, '42 Pacific ----·--·-······-136 San Francisco ....74
Dixon, .Nora ................. .Feb. 22, '46 -West Lake ........ 393 Los Angeles ........74
Donald, Flora L. .. ...... Apr. 10, '48 Amity ..................370 San Francisco .... 61
Edwards, Nellie B .........Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................74
Elliott Maude M .........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ....71
Erwin, Lilian B .............July 28, '41 Olivet ..................205 Corning ................76
Felton, Mary M. .. .......... Oct. 3, '34 Mt. Davison ......481 San Francisco ....74
Ferguson, Ruth R. ........May 26, '34 Sotoyme .......•....123 Healdsburg ..........92
Fetrow Dora L .............May 11, '35 Corinthian ........ 9 Marysville ..........80
Finley.I. Ada L ...............Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........78
Fish~ uertrude L ......... Jan. 26, '46 Elmhurst ............610 Oakland ................85
Fora, Sena E .................July 27, '41 Harbor ................502 Richmond ............79
Fortin, Martha ............July 16, '49 Oakland ·········----188 Oakland ................77
Fortriede, Auguste ........Apr. 4, '25 Crockett ............139 San Francisco ....72
Foster, Elizabeth ............ July 8, '36 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............80
Fowler, Mary B. ........Mar. 25, '43 Solano ________________ 229 VSanallejoern
....ar
....din--;-------8 2
Gafford, Sophia B .........Feb. 7, '48 San Bernardino 348
B
0 74
Gilliam, Estelle ............Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ................ 615 Hemet ..................65
Gillman, Elizabeth ....Mary 28, '47 Argonne ............514 San Francisco ....70
Gordon, Emma ............June 27, '36 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ....63

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Palmer, Lilla P .............June 16, !44 Carmel ................680 Carmel ..................87
Pankow, Catherine ....Apr. 29, '29 Crockett ............139 San Francisco ....84
Parizek Grace D .........Jan. 11, '49 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles .......•76
Peacock Katie ............Mar. 15, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakl·a nd ----------------76
Peairs iillian W ........ .Feb. 11, '35 Normal H'ts ......632 San Diego ............80
Peare~, Carrie C. ________ Oct. 11, '46 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................85
Pease, Mabel ------------·---Oct.10, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ---··---·--·----73
Perger, Eva __________________ Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................'12
Phillips, Ida M. ___________ Nov. 13, '48 Pajaro ................110 Watsonville ----------84
Prentice, Rose ____________June 30, '45 Marin ____________......191 San Rafael ..........80
Preslar, Ida ....................Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ·----------·--87
Ramsey, Hattie ............June 23, '40 Monterey ............217 Monterey --------------88
Raymond, Lillian ........ Sept. 21, '39 Liberty ..............299 Santa Clara ..........80
Reasoner, Marie ..........July 21, '48 Normal H'ts ......632 San Diego ............67
Riley, Edna M .............Aug. 14, '46 Pasadena ______ ......272 Pasadena ..............77
Robertson, Mary F .....Apr. 28, '46 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........76
Roe, Addie E .................July 28, '42 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................83
Roeder, Elizabeth ........June 6, '43 Oak Grove ........216 Alameda ..............78
Rogers Abbey J. ........Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ................418 Los Angeles ........78
Root Emma F ................ .Dec. 2, '32 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ....84
Rosie, Elizabeth ............Jan. 12, '43 LaFayette ..........126 Sebastapol ..........86
Ross, Elizabeth ........... .Nov. 10, '46 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco .... 79
Rudebeck, Anna ......... .Dec. 15, '48 Balder _____________ ....393 San Francisco ....76
Scheuch, Caroline ........Feb. 27, '44 Doric ..................216 San Francisco ....81
Schwarz, Grace H .........J.uly 12, '42 Arlington ........-414 Los Angeles ........ 77
Seymour, Laura ............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ___________.409 Honolulu .............. 71
Shanks, Ella .................. Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ·-·------· 21 Honolulu .............. 78
Sharp, Orry A. ........... ~July 16, '45 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................88
Smilie, Mary A .............Mar. 4, '47 Live Oak .......... 61 Oakland ................88
Snyder, Amanda G .....Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ·.......... 76
Sparrowe, Constance ..Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ....81
Spaulding, Lillian ........Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus __________ 388 San Francisco .... 78
Spivey, Elizabeth ........Feb. 12, '47 Rio Vista ............208 Rio Vista .. :.........93
Sprague, Julia ........... .June 29, '47 Acorn -----·-·----..----494 Oakland ----------------81
Stewart, Mary ........... .Mar. 12, '32 Concord --------------117 Sacramento ..........79
Stroud, Laura ............... .June 2, '37 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ..............75
Taylor, Clara B .............Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ..360 San Francisco .... 88
Santa ____________________
Cruz ........113
38 Santa Cruz ..........70
Thomas, Elizabeth ........Dec. 7, '41 Eden
San Leandro ........ 78
Thompson, Celia ..........Dec. 16, '33
Thomson Wilhelmina ..Mar. 4, '44 West Lake ........392 Los Angeles ........90
Trittenb~ch, Lulu ........Jan. 13, '45 Excelsior ------------166 San Francisco ....83
Vale Olive B . ................June 18, '36 Bethlehem ........453 San Francisco ....92
Wad~, Georgia M ........ .Feb. 24, '39 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............77
Wetzel, Laura ................Dec. 18, '35 Presidio ..............345 San Francisco ....87
Whidden, Effie ..............Feb. 3, '47 Tehama ------------·· 3 Sacramento ..........8'7
White, Emma C ............ .Apr. 16, '46 Tuscan ................261 Williams ..............89
Whittemore 1 Ida ............May 5, '46 Mt. Jackson ......295 Guerneville ........83
WilcoxJ Edith ................May 3, '36 Durant ----------------268 Berkeley ---·----------81
Wild, Lydia ..................Aug. 26, '46 Salinas ............... .204 Salinas -------------·---Jfl
Williams, Annie ............ Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco .... 70
Williams, Louise ..........Feb. 16, '49 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ..............75
Williams, Mary ........... .Feb. 17, '43 Holtville ............425 Holtville ..............88
Wilson, Lille B .............Oct. 23, '44 Washington-------· 20 Sacramento .......... 79
Wolfson, Bertha ..............June 5, '47 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............82
Zander, Olive R. ............Oct. 24, '45 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ..................89
Zeehandelaar, Mary ....Jan. 12, '48 West Gate ........335 Los Angeles ........ 78

361

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

DECOTO, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT. 1948-1949
ADMISSIONS: Men 28. Average Age 75.96

J'

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Ashworth, Fred D .......Mar. 26, '49 Fairmount _________ .435
Briggs, Herbert ____________ Oct. 28, '48 Las Palmas ........366
Burke, Harold E .........July 27, '49 York --------------------423
Cox, Leavitt H .............Sept. 8, '48 Parnassus .......... 388
Dixon, Edgar A. ............Nov. 19, '48 Charter Rock ....410
French, George R. ........Apr. 7, '49 King Solomon's 269
Garfield, Walter P .....Aug. 14, '48 Victory _______________ -474
Graefner, Leopold ........Nov. 17, '48 East Gate ____________ 290
Graham, Eugene C. ________Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard _____________ .341
Helmet, Victor G .........Sept. 8, '48 Mountain Shade 18
Jefts Benjamin F .........Oct. 27, '48 Justice ________________549
Knoff, John W .......... ;..Aug.13, '48 Mt. Vernon ........517
LaHana, Victor ............Nov. 23, '48 LaParfaite Un.....17
Lawson, Andrew N .....Dec. 30, '48 Coronado ............441
Leavitt Melville E .....Dec. 23, '48 Eureka ·-·--------·-·-· 16
Lewis, Fred S. ............July 25, '49 Argonaut -------.....461
Mason, George A. ........Dec. 23, '48 Oakland ..............188
McCathron, John G .....Aug. 19, '48 Coronado --·-----·---441
McGuire, Charles _______.July 12, '49 P.ark -·------------------449
Miller, Louis C .............Oct. 30, '48 Doric ....................216
Moffitt, Rolla M ......... Sept. 18, '49 Silver Gate ........296
Monson, Edward ........Sept. 20, '48 Fellowship _______ .480
Nathan, Louis ................June 4, '49 Starr King ........344
Pitts, David W. ____________Aug.10, '48 Tehachapi ..........313
Rogers, Earl W .............July 27, '49 Harbor ·-·-------------502
Seifert, Otto Emil ........Mar. 19, '49 Eucalyptus ________243
Stimson Chas. A ........ .Feb. 12, '49 McCloud ...... :.....430
Watson, Sidney Jr......... Sept. 9, '48 Mission .............. 169

Age
Town
San Francisco ____ 78
Fresno ···------··-------76
Los Angeles ........56
San Francisco ....80
Berkeley ..............74
San Francisco ....80
San Francisco ____ 77
Los Angeles ........91
Oxnard ----------------83
Downieville ________75
San Francisco ....75
San Francisco ....73
San Francisco .... 70
Coronado -------------· 73
Auburn ................78
San Francisco ....81
Oakland ----------------78
Coronado
______________50
San Francisco ....66
San Francisco .... 69
San Diego ............77
Oakland ----------------85
San Francisco ____ 74
Tehachapi ____________ 92
Richmond -·----------70
Hayward -------------88
McCloud ..............78
San Francisco ....81

ADMISSIONS: Women 21. Average Age 79.54
No.
Name
Admitted Lodge
Anderson, Helen ________June 23, '49 Live Oak .......... 61
Aydelotte, Zana G .....June 12, '49 East Gate ..........290
Boorman, Lillian D. .. ..Dec. 4, '48 San Pasquel .....-452
Cartwright, Isabella ....July 15, '49 East San Diego 561
Clute, Frances E. _______ .Dec. 11, '48 Marin ---·-------------191
Fortin, Martha ______:_____July 16, '49 Oakland ..............188
Gafford, Sophia B. ________Feb. 7, '49 San Bernardino 348
Graham, Alice M. ________ Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard ·-------------341
Huber, Tillie ....................July7, '49 King Solomon's 260
Jensen, Alice ................Aug. 16, '48 Presidio ..............354
Jonas, Alice A. ............Nov.17, '48 Oak Grove ........215
Jones, Elsie I. -----·--·-----·-Jan. 26, '49 Charter Rock ....410
Kapp,, Can:i~ _______________ .July 16, ;49 San Jose ------------ 10
Kre3cik, Otilia ---·--·---------Jan. 25, 49 Sequoia ---·--·-------349
Long, Mary A. ---------------·Jan. 10, '49 Friendship ________210
Mccurry, Alice F ........ .Nov. 27, '48 Union -----·----------· 58
Parizek, Grace D .........Jan. 11, '49 Los Angeles ...... 42
Phillips Ida May ........Nov. 13, '48 Pajaro ----------------110
Rudebeck, Anna ......... .Dec. 15, '48 Balder ·--------------393
Scovel, Mary E. ____________ Nov. 19, '48 California --------·- 1
Williams Louise A. ____Feb. 16, '49 San Joaquin-·--·- 19

Town

Age

Oakland ·-·-----------81
Los Angeles ........84
Pasadena ______________73
East San Diego 78
San Rafael ----------72
Oakland ---------------· 77
San Bernardino .. 74
Oxnard ________________ 78
San Francisco .... 84
San Francisco ....78
A1ameda ·-·-·------·-·83
Berkeley --·-----------76
San Jose --------------77
Oakland ................ 78
San Jose .............. 93
Sacramento ----------86
Los Angeles ........76
Wats·o nville __________ 84
San Francisco ....76
San Francisco ....87
Stockton --------------75

362

PROGEEDINGS OF THE

DEATHS 1948-1949: Men 25. Average Age 73.8
Name
Date
Lodge
No.
Burial
Age
Battestessa, G. ···-···········Oct.10, '48 La Parfaite Un... 17 San Francisco ....82
Boehm, Hiram J ....- ...Aug. 21, '48 Big Bear ............617 Big Bear Lake .. 85
Brewster, George P .....Feb. 15, '49 Cl"aftsman ..........551> Los Angeles ........ 82
Burr1_ J. Edward ........Dec. 25, '48 Park ....................449 San Fl"ancisco .... 75
ChicK, Herbert E .........Oct. 25, '48 Starr King ........344 San Francisco ....74
Esterbrook, Garry ........June 25, '49 Standard ···-·······440 Oakland ................81
Evans, Benjamin F ..... Sept.11, '48 Moneta ··-···········405 Los Angeles ........80
Gilliam, Marcus H ..... Nov. 27, '48 Hemet ···-······-···615 Hemet ·············-···80
Goodwin, Jesse W ........ .Dec. 23, '48 Vermont Sq.....515 Los Angeles ........74
Hooperj Hugh F •........Sept. 2, '48 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........77
Hunt, oseph L .............Oct. 1, '48 Acorn ···-········-···494 Oakland ................73
Johanson, Charles A. ... .May 4, '49 Balder .......- .......393 San Francisco ....88
Jewell, Frank H .........Sept.16, '48 Bay View .........-401 Oakland ................79
Knoff, John W .............June 29, '49 Mt. Vernon ........517 San Francisco ....74
Milisich, Cristofore ......Jan. 25, '49 Speranza Italia'o U San Fl'ancisco ....77
Moffitt, Rolla W •........ Nov. 12, '48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............77
Nielsen, Niels P. ........Dec. 21, '48 Mount Moriah .. 44 San Francisco .... 68
Pitts, David W .............July 30, '49 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............ 92
Perger, John ....................June 3, '49 Fruitale ···-····-···336 Oakland ................73
Per,ser, Harry M ......... Nov. 15, '48 Crockett ............139 San Francisco .... 86
Pritchard, Howard ......July 10, '49 Phoenix ··--·-··-·178 San Bernardino ..88
Radcliffe, Mark B .........Apr. 26, '49 Palos Verdes .... 389 Long Beach ···-··-·79
Robie, Ira A. ....................Dec. 25, '48 Clay .................... 101 Dutch Flat ···-···-87
Sebree, Chas. H. ···-···Sept. 24, '48 Pacific Grove ....331 Pacific Grove ......87
Stryker, Chas. W ........ .Nov. 2, '48 Golden Gate .... 30 San Francisco ....72
WITHDRAWALS
Name
Date Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Briggs, Ja."Iles E ........- ...May 6, '49Canoga ···-··-·······611 Canoga Park ......84
DEATHS 1948-1949: Women 29, Average Age 80.31
Lodge
No.
Burial
Age
Name
Date
Barnes, Alice M .............July 7, '49 Corinthian ........ 9 Marysville ............91
Crosbie, Hilda ................Jan.17, '49 Point Firman ....558 San Pedro ···-··-···7'1
Donath, Auguste ....... .Nov. 21, '48 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ·······-··-··77
Fox, Laura ....................June 24, '49 Union ···-··-········· 58 Sacramento ..........93
Gray, Nellie Foster __ .Dec. 20, '48 Berkeley ............363 Berkeley -··-··---85
Greaves, Margaret L .... .Dec. 18, '48 Apollo ................396 Alameda ···-··-·····68
Guysi, Jennie F ...........Dec. 26, '48 Anaheim ............207 Anaheim ·····--··-8'1
Henderson, Florence ....July 13, '49 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............69
Jonas, Alice H .............Nov. 18, '48 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............84
Kellogg, Lillie P .........Oct. 29, '48 Chula Vista ........626 Chula Vista ........ 93
Kelso, Katherine McD. Jan. 2, '49 Redwood City .. 168 Redwood City ....83
King1 Sara E .................Mar. 6, '49 Hollywood ........353 Hollywood ..........63
Martm, Henrietta G .....May 14, '49 San Gabriel ......546 Banning ................76
Manzer, Mary J. ···-··-···June 3, '49 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ....82
Masse, Eleanor R. ........Jan. 17, '49 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................76
Ohlsen, Julia ···-··---····--···Nov. 2, '48 Balder ···-······-···393 San Francisco ....70
Ough, Lily_ G .................May 10, '49 Sincerity ............132 Greenville ............71
Rix, Ella N .....................Feb. 19, '49 Eastbay ..............489 Berkeley ..............70
Rogers, Leonora ............Jan. 7, '49 King David's ....209 San Luis Ob'po 89
Ross, Catherine ..............July 5, '49 Morgan Hill ......463 Morgan Hill ........76
Rouscup, Annie M .........Nov. 1, '48 Burbank ............406 Burbank ..............91
Scovel, Mary E ....- ...... .Mar. 11, '49 California ········- 1 San Francisco ....87
Settle, Mary ··-···-······.Jan.13, '49 Buckeye ···-·······195 Winters ................91
Smay, Made ····-·-···········Jan. I, '49 Alcatraz ·······-·····™ Oakland ................82
Stevens, Jessie F •........Mar. 22, '49 Redondo ···-··-···328 Redondo Beach ..90
Thomas, Ellen S. ···-·······June 1, '49 Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles ........67
Torr, Georgina Rose ....Nov. 4, '48 Elmhurst ............610 Oakland ................83
Wilson, Mary Ann ........Jan. 7, '49 Fraternity ..........399 San Jose ..............83
Wilson, Mary L. ···-··-··.July 5, '49 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ....75

363

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AGE GROUPS 1948-1949
Average age groups as follows:
Women
Between 50 and 60 years..............................·-···-·-··· 2
Between 60 and 70 years......................·-··················· 11
Between 70 and 80 years...............·-···········-····-······· 79
Between 80 and 90 years.•·················-···········-·····--· 71
Over
90 .................................................................. 9

Men
4
10
52
53
4

172
123 Total 295
Average age for women 78.81 and for men 77.95

I
~

r

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
DECOTO, CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT 1948-1949
VISITATIONS
August 1, 1948. Church Services:
September 19, 1948. Visit of 36th
Home Choir and Community song Masonic District: Variety Program
service.
3:30 P.M.
August 7, 1948: Alta Vista Lodge
September 24, 1948. Visit of SeaNo. 464, Freq T. Williams, W.M. port Lodge No. 550: Conferring of
Second Degree.
Second Degree.
August 8, 1948: Rev. G. C. HenSeptember 25, 1948. Communion:
schelwood. Trinity Episcopal Church, Rev. G. C. Henschelwood.
Hayward.
. September 26, 1948. Church ServAugust 13, 1948. Friendship Lodge ices: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
No. 210, San Jose: First Degree.
Church, Hayward.
August 15, 1948. Masters' and WarOctober 3, 1948. Church Services:
dens' Association of East Bay: Bar- Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
becue Luncheon and Program.
Church, Hayward.
August 21, 1948. East Bay Past
October 10, 1948. Church Services:
Matrons' Association, Louise Garrit- Rev. R. C. Norberg, Eden Congreson, Pres.: Annual visit and reception gational Church, Hayward.
to Grand Matron and other Grand
October 13, 1948. Visit of Grand
Officers of Eastern Star.
Lodge Delegates.
August 22, 1948. Church Services:
October 17, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Lindsey, Community Chureh, ~o~e Choir and Congregational
Castro Valley, with Walnut Creek smgmg.
Assembly Rainbow for Girls uniting
October 19, 1948. Visit of Foothill
in this service.
Lodge No. 564, Oakland: EntertainAugust 28, 1948. Durant Lodge No. ment.
268, Berkeley: Second Degree followOctober 23, 1948. Mt. Diablo Lodge
ed by moving pictures in Auditorium
No. 448, Concord: Degree work.
Reception to the Trustees by the
October 24, 1948. Church Services:
residents of the Home.
~ome Choir and Congregational
August 29, 1948. Church Services: smg.
Rev. R. C. Norberg, Congregational
October 30, 1948. Communion
Church, Hayward, California.
Services: Rev. G. C. Henschelwood,
September 5 1948. Church Serv- Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
ices: Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
October 30, 1948. Hallowe'en Party.
Church, Hayward.
October 31, 1948. Church Services:
September 11, 1948. Visit of Sali- Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
nas Lodge No. 204, Salinas: First De- Episcopal Church, Hayward.
gree.
October 31, 1948. Speranza Italiana
September 12, 1948. Church Serv- Lodge No. 216: Visitation and proices. Home . Choir and Community gram.
Singing
November 6, 1948. Masonic DisSeptember 18, 1948. Visit of Crock- trict No. 51: Marin, Mill Valley, Fairett Lodge No. 139, San Francisco: fax, Temple, Petaluma, Vitrivius:
Third Degree in P. M. Program, 7 Visitation and program: "The Marin
P.M.
Show Boat."

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

November 7, 1948. Church Services: Rev. H. A. Farrar, Baptist
Church, Hayward.
November 14, 1948. Church Services: Rev. Leroy Lindsey, Community Church, Castro Valley.
November 14, 1948. Alameda Assembly No. 52, Rainbow for Girls:
Variety Program.
November 15, 1948. Bob Payne and
his three Aces: Musical Program.
November 20, 1948. Communion:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward, Calif.
November 21, 1948. Salvation
Army: Drama by Valencia Players,
San Francisco.
November 27, 1948. Point Lodge
No. 503, Richmond: Third Degree;
entertainment for ladies.
November 28, 1948. Church Services: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward. Special Music.
December 5, 1948. Church Services: Rev. West, Baptist Institute,
Hayward, California.
December 12, 1948. Church Services.
December 12, 1948. Church Services: Oakland Campfire Girls, Mrs.
Fred Early, Sponsor. Program of
Christmas Music.
December 14, 1948. Junior League
of Oakland: Christmas Carols.
December 19, 1948. Walnut Creek
Assembly No. 84, Rainbow for Girls:
Christmas Program.
December 19, 1948. Church Serviees: · Salvation Army, Hayward.
December 20, 1948. San Jose Assembly No. 5, Rainbow for Girls:
Program of Christmas Carols.
December 21, 1948. Girl Scouts of
Niles, Mrs. Melvin Teeter, leader:
Christmas Program.
December 24, 1948. Communion:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
December 24, 1948. Home Folks
Christmas Party.
December 25, 1948. Distribution of
presents to Home Folks.
December 26, 1948. Church Services: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward. Special Service of
Christmas Music.
January 2, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, Baptist Church,
Hayward.
January 9, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.

J 1a nuary 16, 1949. Church Services:
Salvation Army, Hayward.
January 23, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
January 29, 1949. Communion:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
January 30, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. R. C. Norberg, Eden Congreg1ational Church, Mt. Eden.
February 6, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, Baptist Church,
Hayward.
February 8, 1949. Charter Rock
Lodge No. 410, F. & A. M., Third Degree.
February 9, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
February 22, Washington's Birthday Party: Music, Dancing, Games,
Refreshments.
February 23, 1949. Standard Oil of
California: Moving Pictures.
February 26, 1949. Communion:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
February 27, 1949. Church Services: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
March 6, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, Baptist Church,
Hayward.
March 13, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Episcopal
Church, Hayward.
March 20, 1949. Church Services:
Salvation Army, Hayward.
March 27, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
March 27, 1949. San Leandro
Bethel No. 88, Job's Daughters: Program.
April 9, 1949. Utopia Lodge No.
537, F. & A. M., Program.
April 10, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Episcopal
Church, Hayward.
April 12, 1949. Seal Rock Lodge
No. 536, F. & A. M.: Second Degree.
April 22, 1949. Golden West Lodge
No. 455, F. & A. M.: Third Degree.
April 23, 1949. Sequoia Lodge No.
349, F. & A. M.: Third Degree.
April 30, 1949. San Carlos Lodge
No. 690, F. & A. M.: Entertainment.
May 1, Church Services: Rev. M.
Farrar, Baptist Church, Hayward.
May 7, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206:
Entertainment.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

May 8, 1949. Church Services: Rev.
G. C. Henschelwood, Episcopal
Church, Hayward.
May 13, 1949. Grand Master's Reception: Entertainment and refreshments.
May 14, 1949. John Marshall Lodge
No. 363, F. & A. M.: Third Degree.
May 15, 1949. Salv·a tion Army
Services.
May 21, 1949. Paul Revere Lodge
No. 462, F. & A. M.: Second Degree.
May 21, 1949. Reception for Trustee: Entertainment and refreshments.
May 22, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
May 28, 1949. Santa Monica Lodge
No. 307 F. & A. M.: Third Degree.
May 29, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. R. C. Norberg, Congregational
Church, Hayward.
May 30, 1949. Memorial Services
for departed residents of the Home.
June 4, 1949. Palm Lodge No. 512,
F. & A. M.: Third Degree.
June 5, 1949. Officers' Association,
30th Masonic District.
June 10, 1949. John P. Jarman, No.
669, F. & A. M.: Fellow-craft Degree.
June 11, 1949. Mt. Vernon Lodge

365

No. 517: Third Degree.
June 12, 1949. Islam Temple:
Shrine Band.
June 19, 1949. Educator Lodge No.
554. Church Services: Salvation
Army.
June 21, 1949. Jonathan Lodge No.
545, F. & A. M.: Third Degree.
June 25, 1949. San Mateo Lodge
No. 226, F. & A. M.: Third Degree.
June 26, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church Hayward.
June 29, 1949. Indian Rock Lodge
No. 638, F. & A. M.: Second Degree.
July 3, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. West, Baptist Institute, Hayward.
July 9, 1949. Eucalyptus Lodge No.
243: First Degree. Afternoon 2:00.
July 10, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. Lindsey, Methodist Minister
from Castro Valley.
July 17, 1949. Church Services:
Salvation Army.
July 24, 1949. Church Services:
Rev. Lindsey, Methodist Minister
from Community Church, Castro
Valley.
July 31, 1949. Church Services:
Conducted by Home folks.

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
DECOTO, CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT 1948-1949
CONTRIBUTIONS
August 9, 1948--Andrew Burke, lenberg, San Francisco. 8 metal
Masonic Temple, San Francisco. fracture splints.
Large quantity of clothing for men;
September 15, 1948--Mr. Chas.
Harding, Route 2, Box 260-13-3, Los
metal body brace.
August 10, 1948--F. Lapzies, 1847 Gatos. 1 box of pears.
September 19, 1948--Mr. John C.
Grant Avenue San Francisco. New
Age and National Geographic Maga- Freitas, 3465 - 25th Street, San Francisco. 2 canes-1 gold handled-1
zines.
August 13, 1948-J. L. Arms, Alex- carved.
ander Hamilton Hotel San Francisco.
September 27, 1948-Mr. R. H.
1 suit and other clothing for men.
Kinney, 617 Esyudillo, San Leandro.
August 19, 1948-Mrs. R. G. Ram- 1 case each of diced carrots, pinesey, 5456 Miles Avenue Oakland. apple, cherries and tomato paste.
Men's clothing.
September 28, 1948--Mr. LeRoy
August 21, 1948--East Bay Past
Golden State Lodge No. 358,
Matrons Association, Louise Garri- Lewis,
Santa Monica Blvd., Santa
son, Pres. 7289 glasses of jams and 2815
Monica. 1 box of books.
jellys; 121 qts. canned fruit; 31 cakes.
October 28, 1948-George H. ButAugust 22, 1948--Mr. & Mrs. R. W.
Bowman, 619 - 52nd Street, Oakland. trick, Sec., Morning Star Lodge No.
68, Stockton. Carton of Magazines.
Magazines.
November 9, 1948--A. R. Hatfield,
August 27, 1948-Mrs. Dorothy
Nolting, W.M. Sterling Chapter, 0. 274 Leland Avenue, Menlo Park.
Large Aerial Photo of Home and
E. S. 1 dozen glasses jelly.
August 28, 1948'--Charles M. Wol- Surroundings.

366

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

November 28, R. M. Lane, P. 0.
March 7, 1949-Liggett & Myers
Box 11, Sunol, California. Magazines. (W. E. Van Donn) 615 Fourth St., San
December 1, 1948---Tuolumne Star Francisco. Much Granger and Velvet
Chapter No. 123, O.E.S., Irma Cave, · Tobacco.
W.M. Carton of jellies, candies, nuts,
March 11, 1949-L. E. Bailey, Decoto, California. Large lot Caulidates, and figs.
December 16, 1948 - Cochella flower.
Lodge No. 476, Indio, California. 1
March 12, 1949-K. L. Malcolm,
box of Dates.
Master Tehama Lodge No. 3, SacraDecember 20, 1948---San Jose As- mento. 2 Boxes Ma~azines.
sembly, Rainbow for Girls. Large box
April 2, 1949-Mrs. Lillie E. Ritof Candy.
chie, 1250 Park Avenue, Alameda,
December 20, 1948---Shrine Club, California. 8 new Books.
650 Geary Street, San Francisco. 5
April 9, 1949-East Bay Past Madozen decks of playing cards.
trons' Association, Oakland, CaliforDecember 23, 1948 - Porterville nia. 44 Hospital gowns.
Lodge No. 303, F. & A. M. 3 boxes of
April 12, 1949-Mr. & Mrs. Foot,
Oranges.
3042 Spruce Street, Bakersfield, CaliDecember 231 1948---0roville Lodge fornia. 1 pair of Shoes-Lot of Magazines.
No. 103, F. & a.
M. I keg of Olives.
December 23, 1948 - Franklin
April 17, 1949-Mrs. Felice I. BurChapter No. 20, R.A.M. 1 keg of gess, Secretary, San Leandro ChapOlives.
ter No. 103, J. D., 952 Rodney Drive,
December 23, 1948---East Bay Past San Leandro, California. Easter
Matron's Association. Gifts for La- Favors for Residents of the Home.
April 17, 1949-Mr. Gilbert G.
dies of the Home.
December 27, 1948---East Bay Mas- Green, 911 Forum Building, Sacraters & Wardens Association, Masonic mento. Lot of Magazines and Books.
April 20, 1949-Calistoga Chapter
Temple, 12th & Jay Streets, Sacramento. Large quantity of Magazines. No. 189, 0.E.S., Calistoga, California.
December 28, 1948---Bud & Votaw, Jams and Jellies.
May 20, 1949-Mr. Clarence F.
663 Howard Street, San Francisco.
Complete "1948" Reader's Digest.
Hoke, 2305 Ward Street, Berkeley,
January 5, 1949-H. W. Benton, California. 7 Volumes Masonic HisRoute 1 Box 9, Porterville, California. tory.
May 25, 1949-Messrs. Wm. R.
22 Boxes of Books.
January 16, 1949-86th Masonic Warner & Co., Inc., 4011- 1050 North
District, Clarence Glaze, 909 E. Colo- Wilcox Avenue, Los Angeles, Calirado St., Glendale, California. 2 fornia. 27 Cartons Bath Salts, Mineral
Oil and Drugs.
Zenith Television Sets.
January 21, 1949-Borden's Dairy
June 6, 1949-Mr. Richard L. McDelivery Company, Hayward. 60 Kinley, Richmond, California. 3 cartons of books and magazines.
Gallons Ice Cream.
January 24, 1949-Harry Schenck,
June 16, 1949-Mr. Herbert E. Holt,
11002 McKinley Avenue, Los An- Rt. 2, Box 44, El Centro, California.
geles. Package of Magazines.
One crate Cantelopes.
January 24, 1949-Emil W. Trefts,
July 10, 1949-Mr. W. P. Rockwell,
25 Dake Avenue, Santa Cruz, Calif. 746 - 8th Street, Oakland, California.
Assortment of articles: Leather, zip- Magazines-8 post, 2 Life.
pers, handbags, etc.
July 10, 1949-Mr. R. M. Lane, P.
January 25, 1949-F. Lapzies, 1874
Grant Ave., San Francisco. Geogra- 0. Box 11, Sunol, California. 2 boxes
phic, New Age Magazines; "The Ma- of Magazines.
July 12, 1949-F. Lapzies, 1847
gic Mountain," Thos. Mann.
February 22, 1949-Borden's Dairy Grant Avenue, San Francisco. 1 pkg,
Delivery (Wallace Echlund) 2743 San National Geographic Magazines.
P.ablo Ave., Oakland, California. Ice
July 12, 1949-Mrs. F. Macpherson,
Cream-Washington's Birthday.
1900 Vallejo Street, Apt. 404, San
March 4, 1949-Dr. J. W. Barnes, Francisco, California. Assortment of
1536 N. Hunter, Stockton, California. mens' socks, shirts, and ties.
2 suits, 2 pk~s. Shirts, Underware
July 20, 1949-Mr. L. J. Arms, Rm.
(Bro. Mrs. Alice Barnes.)
1110, Alexander Hamilton Hotel, 631

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

O'Farrell Street, San Francisco. 1
man's suit and 1 shirt.
July 20, 1949-Mr. G. W. Derainer,
501 Bayswater Ave., Burlingame,
Calif. One carton of clothes.
July 23, 1949-Miss Happy Willard,

367

Fruitvale Station, Box 131, Oakland.
1 large box of Jams and Jellies.
July 25, 1949-Mrs. F. Macpherson,
1900 Vallejo Street1 San Francisco.
2 men's suits, 1 pall' of suspenders,
buttons, 1 pair shoes.

DECOTO CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND 1948-49
No. Lodge
Amount No. Lodge
Amount
1 California ·····-----$ 25.00 134 Vacaville···-··········-·········
5.00
2 Western Star ········-··-···
5.00 136 Pacific ···-················-······· 20.00
3 Tehama ............................ 10.00 139 Crockett •......................... 15.00
8 Tuolumne ···-··················· 10.00 144 Oriental ............................ 40.00
9 Corinthian ···-················· 10.00 150 Molino ·····-··-········-·········
5.00
10 San Jose ···-······-····--····· 15.00 156 Woodland ·······-····-··-·····
5.00
12 Yount···--··-········-····-·····
2.50 166 Excelsior ·····-········-········· 12.50
13 Nevada ............................
2.50 167 Alameda ·····-···················
5.00
16 Eureka ..............................
5.00 168 Redwood City ···········-··· 10.00
17 La Parfaite Union ..........
5.00 169 Mission ·····-···'····-··-·-··· 12.50
19 San Joaquin ···-··-·········
10.00 175 Antioch ...:................·-······· 10.00
20 Washington ·······-··········· 10.00 178 Phoenix ·····-····················· 20.00
5.00
21 Hawaiian ···········-············· 25.00 179 Mendocino ......................
22 Occidental ........................ 20.00 180 Petaluma.......................... 12.50
23 Madison ............................
5.00 181 Russian River ................
5.00
26 El Dorado ·····-··-·············
5.00 188 Oakland ···--····················· 10.00
30 Golden Gate ···-··-··-······· 25.00 191 Marin ···-·························
12.50
32 Gold Hill ..........................
5.00 192 Santa Barbara ................ 10.00
193
Ferndale
..........................
10.00
35 San Diego ··-···················· 25.00
38 Santa Cruz ·····-··············· 10.00 194 Mountain View ···-······-·
5.00
40 Sacramento .................... 10.00 195 Buckeye ···-········-···········
5.00
41 Martinez ·····-··················· 10.00 196 San Simeon ·········-··-····· 10.00
198
Wilmington
....................
10.00
43 Hiraln ···················-·········
5.00
44 Mount Moriah ................
5.00 199 Hartley ............................
5.00
45 Crescent ·····-···················
5.00 200 Truckee ···-·························
5.00
51 Illinoistown ....................
5.00 201 Silveyville ····-······-··- 10.00
57 Santa Rosa ·········-······-··· 10.00 203 Confidence ...................... 10.00
58 Union -·-··························· 12.50 206 Stanislaus ........................ 15.00
5.00
61 Live Oak ···-·····-·····-······· 25.00 208 Rio Vista ..........................
5.00
64 Natoma ···-·········-·-·········
5.00 209 King David's ..................
65 Amador ···-····-····-··-·······
5.00 210 Friendship ···············--··· 10.00
5.00
70 Enterprise ·····-······--·······
5.00 211 San Benito ......................
78 Calaveras ........................ 10.00 212 S. San Francisco............ 10.00
79 Humboldt ........................
2.50 215 Oak Grove ......................
5.00
81 Yolo ········-················-·····
2.50 217 Monterey ·················-····· 10.00
84 Vesper ·····-··················-···
5.00 218 Mosaic ·······-········-·····-··· 10.00
87 Naval ·······-···············-·-··· 25.00 219 Speranza Italiana ···-··-·· 10.00
93 St. Helena ···················-···
5.00 220 Downey ·····-····················· 10.00
95 Henry Clay ·········-···········
2.50 222 Roseville ·····-···················
5.00
99 Yosemite·····-··················· 10.00 224 Bakersfield ···-················· 12.50
101 Clay---···-··-····-···-·· 10.00 225 Brooklyn ·····-·················- 10.00
106 Arcata ····-··-···············-·
5.00 226 San Mateo ···-··················· 25.00
5.00
111 Chico ···-··-··--················· 10.00 228 Athens····-·········-·············
113 Eden.................................. 10.00 240 Colusa ····-···-···················
2.50
120 Fidelity ·····-····················· 25.00 246 Pomona ···-···-·················· 20.00
122 Alamo ···-····-·········-··-··· 10.00 247 Fresno ····-··-····-···-·-··-· 25.00
124 Table Mountain ·······-····· 10.00 253 Landmark ···············-··-···
5.00
126 Lafayette ........................
5.00
256
Lodi
·········-··--·················
10.00
127 Hermann ·-··-··-··············· 20.00 258 Penrhyn ..........................
5.00
128 Visalia -···-·····-····-········· 10.00
131 Woodbridge ·---·-··-··-···
5.00 259 Evergreen ·············-····-- 12.50

368
No.
261
262
265
267
268
269
272
277

278
279
280
282
283
285
286
287
290
292
293
297
299
301
306
313
320
321
324
326
327
328
332
336
337
343
344
346
347
348
349
351
353
356
359
360
363
366
370
371

374
375
376
377
379
382
384
385
387
388
389
393
396

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Amount No.
Tuscan .............................. 20.00 397
Lompoc ............................
5.00 400
Orland ..............................
7.50 401
Galt ..................................
5.00 403
Durant..............................
5.00 407
Olive Branch ..................
5.00 409
Pasadena .......................... 25.00 410
Selma................................
5.00 411
So. California.................. 10.00 412
Hanford ............................ 25.00 . 415
Madera ............................
9.00 425
Calayomi ..........................
5.00 426
South West...................... 10.00 428
San Miguel ..:................... 10.00 429
Paso Robles ....................
5.00 431
Winnedumah .................. 10.00 433
East Gate ........................ 25.00 435
Los Gatos ........................
10.00 440
Orange Grove ................ 10.00 441
Dunsmuir ........................ 10.00 447
Liberty ............................
10.00 449
Ontario ............................
10.00 460
Ashlar ..............................
5.00 461
Tehachapi ........................ 15.00 463
South Gate ......................
5.00 466
Alisa! ................................
5.00 467
Corona .............................. 10.00 468
Needles ............................
5.00 471
Long Beach .................... 25.00 475
Redondo .......................... 10.00 477
San Pedro........................
10.00 478
Fruitvale.......................... 10.00 479
Carquinez ........................ 10.00 483
San Fernando ................
15.00 484
Starr King ......................
25.00 486
Palo Alto ..........................
10.00 488
McKinley ........................ 22.50 489
San Bernardino ..............
10.00 491
Sequoia ............................ 10.00 493
Palestine ..........................
10.00 494
Pinole ................................
5.00 497
Mill Valley ...................... 25.00 500
Loyalton ..........................
2.50 502
San Francisco ................ 12.50 503
Berkeley .......................... 10.00 507
Las Palmas ................,.....
5.00 510
Amity .............................. 10.00 511
le Progres de L'Oceanie 15.00 513
Jewel................................
2.50 514
Richmond ........................ 12.50 516
Francis Drake ................ 10.00 518
Artesia .............................. 10.00 521
Fillmore .......................... 15.00 525
Highland Park ................
5.00 526
El Centro .......................... 10.00 527
Dinuba .............................. 10.00 530
Coalinga ..........................
10.00 531
Parnassus ........................ 10.00 539
Palos Verdes .................. 25.00 541
Balder .............................. 50.00 546
Apollo .............................. 10.00 550

Lodge
Amount
Rising Light ....................
5.00
Burlin~ame ....................
20.00
Bay View ........................ 20.00
Yerba Buena ................,.
5.00
La Mesa ..........................
5.00
Honolulu .......................... 25.00
Charter Rock ..................
10.00
Perris ................................
10.00
Calexico ..........................
10.00
Silver Trowel..................
5.00
Holtville ..........................
5.00
Midway ............................
5.00
San Dimas ...................... 20.00
Pittsburg ..........................
5.00
A1pha ................................ 15.00
Hammonton .................... 25.00
Fairmount ......................
10.00
Standard ..........................
5.00
Coronado ........................
5.00
Torrance .......................... 10.00
Park..................................
5.00
Mount Oso ...................... 15.00
Argonaut .......................... 25.00
Morgan Hill ....................
8.95
Libertas ............................
10.00
Culver City ...................... 20.00
Rockridge .......................,
5.00
Delta ................................ 11.00
America .......................... 30.00
Temblor ............................
5.00
Thousand Oaks..............
10.00
Golden Rule ....................
10.00
Bell ....................................
10.00
Albert Pike ...................... 12.50
Caledonia ........................
17.50
Patterson ........................ 10.00
East Bay ..........................
5.00
Woodstock ......................
5.00
Atascadero ......................
5.00
Acorn ................................
10.00
Fremont ..........................
10.00
Roosevelt ........................
5.00
Harbor ..............,...............
5.00
Point ................................
5.00
El Segundo ......................
15.00
Cupertino ........................
5.00
Sunnyvale .....................~..
10.00
Cahueng,a ........................
7.50
Argonne ..........................
15.00
Taft .................................. 10.00
La Jolla ............................
10.00
Piedmont ........................ 20.00

~=~r~it;'=~~~~~~~::::::::

Covenant ........................
Sun Garden ....................
Alexandria ......................
Belvedere ........................
Henry Morse Stephens..
San Gabriel ....................
Seaport ............................

lg:gg

10.00
25.00
5.00
21.50
.5.00
5.00
5.00

369

Amt.
Commandery
No.
No. Lodge
Amount
5.00
552 Semper Virens ................ 10.00 Vacaville ............................ 38
5.00
555 White Pine ...................... 10.00 San Francisco .................. 41
2.50
558 Point Firmin .................. 10.00 Santa Cruz ........................ 44
5.00
561 East San Diego .............. 10.00 Palo Alto ............................ 47
20.00
574 S. W. Hackett.................. 10.00 Alhambra .......................... 48
5.00
575 Fort Crook ...................... 10.00 Redding .............................. 50
25.00
576 • El Cajon Valley.............. 10.00 Whittier .............................. 51
5.00
578 Progressive...................... 27.00 Auburn .............................. 52
15.00
5.00 Hollywood ........................ 56
580 Santa Maria .............1......
5.00
581 Security ............................
5.00 San Pedro .......................... 60
10.00
589 Kauai ................................ 25.00 Calvary .............................. 62
590 Compass .......................... 10.00
$243.51
Total ..............................
593 All States ........................ 10.00
595 Alexander Graham Bill 10.00
596 Guardian ..........................
5.00
598 Pearl Harbor .................. 25.00
CHAPTERS. R. A. M.
603 Dimond ............................ 10.00
Chapter
No.
Amt.
609 Provident ........................ 25.00
620 Point Loma ...................... 10.00 San Francisco .................. 1 $ 5.00
629 Fairview .......................... 10.00 Sonora ................................ 2
10.00
633 Poinsettia ........................ 25.00 Sacramento ...................... 3
5.00
635 Riverside .......................... 10.00 Nevada City ...................... 6
5.00
638 Indian Rock .................... 10.00 Shasta ................................ 9
5.00
640 Veritas ..............................
2.50 Sutter .................................. 11
2.50
645 A. F. E. Irwin .................. 10.00 Washington ...................... 13
5.00
648 Damascus ........................
5.00 Grass Valley ...................... 18
2.50
661 Malta ................................
5.00 Petaluma ............................ 22
2.50
662 Henry Knox ....................
5.00 Martinez ............................ 31
5.00
667 Meridian .......................... 10.00 Naval .................................. 35
5.00
668 San Gorgonio .................. 10.00 Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
673 Far West..........................
3.75 Santa Cruz ........................ 38
2.50
676 Willow Glen ....................
5.00 ·Donner ................................ 39 ·
5.00
5.00 Chico .................................. 42
680 Carmel ..............................
5.00
681 Dos Palos ........................
5.00 Visalia ................................ 44
10.00
686 Albany ..............................
5.00 Santa Rosa ........................ 45
5.00
690 San Carlos ...................... 10.00 Woodland .......................... 46
5.00
Ventura .............................. 50
10.00
Total ........................................$2778.70 Humboldt .......................... 52
5.00
Keystone .......................... 56
5.00
San Luis Obispo .............. 62
2.50
St. Helena .......................... 63
5.00
COMMANDERIES, K. T.
Riverside ............................ 67
2.50
Commandery
No.
Amt. Crown ................................ 72
5.00
25.00
California .......................... 1 $ 12.50 Hanford .............................. 74
5.00
Sacramento ...................... 2
5.00 Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
Oroville .............................. 5
10.00 Ferndale ............................ 78
5.00
Nevada .............................. 6
2.50 San Pedro .......................... 89
5.00
San Jose ............................ 10
5.00 Berkeley ............................ 92
5.00
Oakland ............................ 11
10.00 Palo Alto ............................ 93
5.00
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
11.01 Redondo ............................ iOl
Naval .................................. 19
5.00 Marin ··········-----·····..····---102
5.00
5.00
Woodland .......................... 21
5.00 Ontario ..............................105
5.00
Watsonville ...................... 22
5.00 Mill Valley ........................108
10.00
Visalia ................................ 26
10.00 El Centro ............................109
5.00
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
5.00 South Pasadena ................112
5.00
Fresno ................................ 29
2.50 Coalinga ............................114
2.50
Pasadena ............................ 31
10.00 Sebastopol ........................117
5.00
Mt. Shasta ........................ 32
10.00 Hollywood ........................120
5.00
Ukiah .................................. 33
20.00 Huntington Park ..............127
5.00
Eureka ................................ 35
2.50 Inglewood ..........................131
10.00
Southern California ........ 37
10.00 Searchlight ........................133

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THf:

Chapter
No.
San Fernando ..................136
Wilmington ......................141
Roseville ···········-··-·····-····146

Total

Amt.
5.00
5.00
2.50

$255.00

COUNCILS, R. S. M.
Council
No.

Sacramento ...................... 1
Marysville ........................ 3
Gateway ·'--··-····-··-······· 13
Pasadena ··························- 16
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
Fresno ................................ 18
Pomona·····-······················· 21
Valley ................................ 27
Hollywood ........................ 33
Southern California ........ 35

Amt.
$ 5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATIONS

Amt.
39th District ···············-············-···$10.00
84th District ···················-··-········· 20.00
88th District ···················-············· 10.00

Total ···--··-··-··-·-··-············-~
CHAPTERS, O. E. S.
No.
Amt.
San · Rafael ·--··-··············.215 $ 10.00
10.00
Mill Valley ···-···-··-····-··.219

Amt.
California Bodies ........................$12.00
Oakland Bodies ·····-······-··········- 25 00
Peninsula Bodies -···-··········-····· 20:00
Sacramento Bodies .................... 12.50
San Francisco Bodies ................ 25.00

Total ··-······-··········-·····
$ 20.00
INDIVIDUALS
AND MISCELLANEOUS
Amt.
Charles L. Pioda ··-·-·---.$ 10.00
Herbert J. Fisher ····-············· 10.00
J. H. Murdock ·················-·········· 25.00
Mrs. Maude A Fisher ·····--····· 50.00
C. R. DeWitt-·······-·················- 12.50
Frank J. Main ............................ 2.50
Thos. O'Leary ···-··············-······· 2.50
Eleanor T. Verkuyl ·····--········· 5.00
633 Club, Ventura.................... 10.00
Rockridge Court No. 47,
10.00
Amaranth ·················-··········
Vera Gillick·······-····················: 10.00

Total ···---·--·········-·····-··-·····$95.00

Total ·-············-····················-$160.00

Total

$ 42.50
A. &: A. S. F.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'

371

-.
CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
July 31, 1949
BOYS-40
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Adams, Orin ··············-·-·····9-19-49 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ·······-···15
Anderson, Roy ·············-·········7-6-38 Garden Grove ....586 Orange ···········-···-17
Angel, William ···············-···3-22-46 East Gate ..........290 Los Angeles ........13
Armstrong, James ·········-··-12-21-47 Tyrian ·······-··---439 Manteca ................14
Armstrong, Robert ..........12-21-47 Tyrian ·······-·······439 Manteca ................12
Ashurst, Ellis ·--····-··-··-····.2-22-47 Magnolia ···-··-···242 Santa Barbara ....12
Ashurst, Larry ....................2-22-47 Magnolia ···-·······242 Santa Barbara .... 9
Averill, Gordon ---··-··-····.2-19-49 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley .......... 9
Beard, Paul -··-········-··-··-···8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
...... ·--····-·--·-··-10
Beard, Robert ......................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
···············-········-······· 8
Beard, William ·············-·····8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
--·-··--·--··--...l.S
Bish, Robert ···--······--·····-9-16-47 Temple ···-··-······· 14 Sonoma -··--·-16
Bish, Thomas ···-···-······~·-···9-16-47 Temple ·······-··-··· 14 Sonoma ···-··---···10
Boyer, Dennis ·············-·····11-28-48 Phoenix ·······-·····178 San Bernardino .. 6
Burkhalter, Charles ....•.......3-26-45 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ........10
Burkhalter, William ..........3-26-45 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ........16
Case1 Dwight ····-········-·······9-24-46 W. Los Angeles..373 W. Los Angeles ..10
Darling, Truman ·····-········-1-28-48 Liberty ·······-······.299 Santa Clara .......... 6
Diercks, Donald .................. 11-26-43 Golden State ....358 Los Angeles ........15
Doherty, Frank ····-··-······-···7-6-44 Union ·······-········· 58 Sacramento ..........15
Dyer, John ···--··-··--··-··-···7-8-40 Yorba Linda ......469 Yorba Linda ···-···15
Eller, Harold ···············-·······6-23-44 Meridian ·······-···667 Glendale ..............11
Eller, Harry ·····-············-·····5-24-43 Meridian ............667 Glendale ..............14
Finney, Charles ···-········-·······7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ............8
Finney, Michael ....................7-l$-49 Neptune ···-········-619 Long Beach .......... 6
Johnston, Calvin ·············-···7-1-38 Lynwood ......... _.600 Lynwood .........-17
Joy, Harry ·············-··-···········8-10-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .......... 7
Joy, William ·····-··-·-···-··-··6-15"47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........12
Marvin, Marshall ..................9-8-46 Azure ..................533 Fullerton ···-·-···-16
Mason, David ·····-············-···7-2-44 Friendship .....- .. .210 San Jose ···-······-···10
Mason, Rollin ...................... 2-12-44 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ···-··-··--16
Mills, Kenneth ....................11-17-40 Live Oak ···-··-··· 61 Oakland ···-··-··-···15
Place, Barry ..........................8-9-47 Burlingame ....._.400 Burlingame --··· 9
Parker, Lowell ......................9-5-41 Lamanda Park ..627 P.asadena ·······-···-14
Parker, Ronald ·············-···11-19-39 Lamanda Park ..627 Pasadena ···-··--··17
Schelling, Eugene ................7-26-39 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ···-···16
Thompson, David ..................1-5-46 Coronado ···-··-···441 Coronado .......-17
Trebell, Thomas ···-··········---7-10-47 Redondo ·······-·····328 Redondo Beach ..14
Westlake.,._ Robert ·······-·······-1-9-49 Pentalpha ·····-···202 Los Angeles ........ 8
San Diego -·-··-···16
Weston, uonald ·····-···············1-7-40 John D.
Spreckels ........657
GIRLS-19
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Achenbach, Patricia ..........9-11-48 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........ 7
Adams, Jacquelyn ............9-19-48 Silver Gate ...- ... 296 San Diego ·····-··-·12
Allison, Laura Mae ···-··-····4-1-45 Ashlar ···--··-·····306 Colton -··-···--·14
Allison, Linda Lee ···--····-···6-17-45 Ashlar ···--··-·····306 Colton ·········-··-····· 9
Allison, Patricia ·····-······-···4-1-45 Ashlar ···-··--·····306 Colton ···-····-···--18
Order of Grand
Beard, Patricia ......................8-6-46
Master
··-··-··-···---14
Biggs, Mary ........................12-31-47 Winnedumah ....287 Bishop ·····-···--15
Burkhalter, Sue Jane ..........3-26-45 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles .....•..15
Darling, Mary ......................8-26-46 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ........10

372

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name
Admitted
Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Offinga, Barbara ..................8-13-42 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........15
Offinga, Elinor ........................8-4-44 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........10
Pearce, Joyce ........................9-8-46 Atwater ..............622 Los Angeles ........13
Pease, Joanne ........................7-18-47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................12
Schoenefeld, May ................5-19-40 Olive Branch ....269 Tular.e ·····-···········15
Turner, Carol ........................11-6-45 Surprise Valley..235 Cedarville ............14
Wallen, Jo Ann ......................4-1-44 Unity ..................368 Glendale ..............11
Readmitted ..........................9-6-48
Weist, Nancy ........................8-25-46 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........ 11
Williams, Jeannette ..............6-2-43 Ione ...................... 80 Ione ........................12
Williams, Suzanne ................6-2-43 Ione ...................... 80 Ione ····-··-········-···14
ADMITTED TO COVINA HOME
August l, 1948 to July 31, 1949
BOYS-7
Town
Age
Admitted
Lodge
Name
No.
(at admittance)
Adams, Orin C.....................9-19-48 Silver Gate ......296 San Diego ............14
Averill, Gordon W ...............2-19-49 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley .......... 9
Boyer, Dennis E .................11-28-48 Phoenix ·-·-···---178 San Bernardino .. 6
Finney, Michael S ................. 7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ........ 8
Finney, Cichael S .................7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ........ 6
Kelly, Roger H ....................... 8-7-48 Elysian ................418 Los Angeles ........ 7
Westlake, Robert E. ···:··········1-9-49 Pentalp'ha ......... .202 Los Angeles ........ 7

GIRLS-3
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Achenbach, Patricia A.........9-11-48 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........ 7
Adams, Jacquelyn P . .......... 9-19-48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............11
Walen, Jo Ann (readmitted) 9-6-48 Unity ..................368 Glendale ..............10
DEPARTED DURING THE YEAR
August l, 1948 to July 31, 1949
Boys-12
Name
Admitted Departed
Age
Anderson, Ray ...............................7-6-38
4-1-49 ·····························-····-:-·······--18
Anderson, Robert N .................2-25-37
6-27 49 .....................................!....•--18
Clough, Charles R. ..................10-20-46
2-5-49 ·····r······················-··-··-······-·-10
Connery, Dean ..........................8-26-35
2-21 49 ..................... ~----·······-······---1'1
Farrington, Jack C. ·············-·····3-6-48 10-29-48 ·································-····-··---1t
Jones, Harry D. ·····-··········-·······2-9-45
6-23-49 ··········································--·..l'r
Jones, William R .......................11-2-42
4-26-49 ................................................18
Kelly, Roger H .............................8-7-48 11-6-48 .................................................. 7
Kotsenburg, William C ...........6-11-40
6-28-49 ·········································-·····lt
Tait, Robert, Jr.......................2-24-43
1-29-49 ······················'·················'··-···18
Wallen, Carl J. ··-·····················4-1-44
6-24-49 •............. :......,...........................17
Pietropaolo, Benito ···············- -5-25-46
7-15-49 ·······························-········-···-13
GIRLS-3
Name
Admitted Departed
Age
Clou~h, Sharon ..........~ .............10-20-46
2-5-49 ·····-···································-·---10
Loram, Barbara L . .................... 1-4-44
2-8-49 ·····-····················-····-·-········--..11
Shaw, Luanna ···--···················12-29-46 10-17-48 ···············-··························-··· 9
OUTSIDE RELIEF UNDER CARE OF COVINA HOME
July 31, 1949
No.
Date Began
Name
Lodge
Pilz, Theodore ........................Alcatraz 244 ···-··············-··········-··········.Nov. 1946

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

373

VISITATIONS TO COVINA HOME
August 1, 1948 to July 31. 1949
24 San Bernardino Lodge No. 348
August, 1948:
24 Silver Gate Lodge No. 296.
15 El Sereno Lodge No. 588.
29 Golden Poppy Assembly No. May, 1949:
1 Meridian Lodge No. 667.
85, Order of the Rainbow for
1 Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
Girls.
8 All States Lodge No. 593.
29 Temple City Chapter No. 448,
8 Moneta Lodge No. 405.
Order of Eastern Star.
8 West Adams Lodge No. 565.
29 Temple City Lodge No. 612.
15 Bethel No. 34, Job's Daughters.
September, 1948:
15 Bethel No. 95, Job's Daughters.
12 Alexander Hamilton Lodge
15 James Madison Lodge No. 572.
No. 535.
15 Manchester Lodge No. 585.
12 San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.
15 Seaside Lodge No. 504.
19 Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
15 Signal Lodge No. 543.
26 Annual Masonic Home Alum15 So. California Lodge No. 278.
ni Reunion.
19 Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627.
October, 1948:
22 Anchor Lodge No. 273.
3 The Gardens Lodge No. 621.
22 Greenleaf Lodge No. 670.
3 San Antonio Lodge No. 694.
22 Sunnyside Lodge No. 577.
24 Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625.
22 Whittier Lodge No. 323.
24 Craftsmen Lodge No. 559.
28 Bethel No. 93, Job's Daughters.
24 Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627.
29 Alexander Graham Bell Lodge
31 The Westerners for Dedication
No. 595.
of the Telescope.
29 Arlington Lodge No. 414.
November, 1948:
29 Ascot Lodge No. 538.
14 Atwater Lodge No. 622.
29 Euclid Lodge No. 519.
21 Fairview Lodge No. 629.
29 Golden State Lodge No. 358.
21 Officers Association of District
29 Long Beach Lodge No. 327.
No. 87.
29 Progressive Lodge No. 578.
December, 1948:
29 Service Lodge No. 594.
5 Reseda Assembly No. 39, OrDuring May, Endowment month, a
der of the Rainbow for Girls.
total of 1812 visitors were
12 Aviation Square Club.
greeted at the Home.
12 Columbia Assembly No. 67,
Order of the Rainbow for Girls June, 1949:
5 Alta Loma Lodge No. 643.
12 Officers of Indian Wells Valley
5 Ashlar Lodge No. 306.
Lodge No. 691.
5 Benjamin Franklin Lodge No.
19 El Sereno Pyramid No. 50, A.
509.
E.0.S.
5 Pasadena Prop-Twisters Club.
19 Utopia Lodge No. 537.
5 Pasadena Sonic Schmoos Club.
January, 1949:
5 Queen Beach Lodge No. 540.
No visitations.
12 Adena Assembly No. 109. OrFebruary, 1949:
der of the Rainbow for Girls.
20 Bellflower Assembly No. 35,
12 San Fernando Lodge No. 343.
Order of the Rainbow for Girls
12 Wilmington Lodge No. 198.
March, 1949:
19 Hawthorne Assembly No. 70,
27 Radiant Chapter No. 421,
Order of the Rainbow for Girls
0.E.S.
19 South Park Lodge No. 563.
April, 1949:
26 Henry Knox Lodge No. 662.
10 Jubilee Lodge No. 604.
26 Sunnyside Chapter, Order of
10 Montebello Lodge No. 451.
De Malay.
10 Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.
July, 1949:
10 Silver Cord Lodge No. 505.
No Visitations due to camp activi17 Bell Lodge No. 483.
ties.
24 Mount Olive Lodge No. 506.

374

375

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ENTERTAINMENT

of Glendora Lodge No. 404. The Masonic Home. An informal meeting
Mothers' Flower Ceremony was con- · was held after the dinner.
ferred on the mothers of Glen ChapIn addition to the regular league
ter No. 357, O.E.S.
baseball games in which the Masonic
May 12, 1949-De Molay Officers Home Team participated, the followof the George Washington Chapter ing is a portion of the games played
were entertained at dinner at the at the Home: •
Date
Visiting Team
Score Game Won By
May 21
De Molay Team ·········- ··- - ·····-·- - - ·- -··14 to 13 Masonic Home
May 22
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670 and
Whittier Lodge No. 323...·- ··- ··- - -·- 8 to 5 Masonic Home
May 29
Service Lodge No. 594......·- ··-·- -- ··--- · 6 to 4 Masonic Home
June 4
George Washington Chapter Order
of De Molay ···--·-··································-·-··11 to 5 Masonic Home
June 12
San Fernando De Molay Team....... _..........21 to 2 Masonic Home
LEAGUE GAMES:
· June 10
Covina Chapter De Molay.....................- ...11 to 10 Masonic Home
June 28
Covina Chapter De Molay.·-·--··-····- - ··-12 to 7 Masonic Home

August 15, 1948: El Sereno Lodge
No. 588-Vaudeville Show held at
the Home.
August 29, 1948: Golden Poppy Assembly No. 85, Order of th~ Rainbow
for Girls sponsored a Variety Show,
followed' by games, for the Junior
Boys and Girls at the Home.
September 19, 1948: Picnic for
Senior Boys at Tournament Park,
Pasadena, given •by Lamanda Park
Lodge No. 627 and East Pasadena
Chapter No. 473, 0. E. S.
October 23, 1949: Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 415-Dance V:t the Home.
Fifteen piece band furnished by the
Lodge.
October 24, 1949: Birthday party
for Ronald Parker and Senior ·Boys
given by Lamanda Park LOdge No.
627.
November 6, 1948: Mr. & Mrs. Ed.
Harrison known on the stage as "The
Questions", gave a program of magic
at the Home.
December 16, 1948: Monrovia
Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner ~odge
No. 607-26th Annual Christmas
Party held at Monrovia.
December 17, 1948: Carmelita
Lodge No. 599-Christmas Party held
at the Home.
December 19, 1948: Al Bahr Shrine
Clowns of San Diego. Christmas
Party held at the Home.
El Sereno Pyramid No. 50, A. E. 0.
S. - Christmas Vaudeville Show
given at the Home.
January 1, 1949: San Pasqual
Lodge No. 452-Hosts to children at
Tournament of Roses Parade.
February 17, 1949: Monrovia Lodge
No. 308 entertained a group of Juni<;>r
Boys as special guests at Monrovia
Lodge Father and Son Dinner.
March 11, 1949: Scottish Rite Caravan (Pasadena) Entertainment for
the children of the Hom~held at
the Home.
March 12, 1949: Fezzan Grotto
Vaudeville Party at Whittier.
March 2~i 1949: San Gabriel Lodge
No. 546-nosts to the children at
Clyde Beatty Circus.
April 24, 1949: Entertainment of
motion picture comedies given by
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506 in the
Little Theatre of the Home.

The Junior Girls were guests of
San Gernardino Lodge No. 348 at. a
picnic at Covina City Park.
April 29, 1949: Minstrel Show at
the Home given by members of Burbank Lodge No. 406.
May 1, 1949: Harold and Harry
Eller were guests of Meridian Lodge
No. 667 at a picnic lunch at Covina
City Park.
May 19, 1949: Birthday party for
Lowell Parker and Intermediate
Boys given by Lamanda Park Lodge
No. 627 at the Home.
June 3, 1949: ''Magic Wonder
Show'' at the Home. Given by members of the Society of American Magicians and sponsored by Beverly
Hills Lodge No. 528. Members of
John Marshall Lodge No. 636 attended as guests of Beverly Hills Lodge.
June 19, 1949: Pic:nic for Se~ior
and Intermediate Girls at Covma
City Park, Covina. Given by Hawthorne Assembly No. 70, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls.
June 26, 1949: Barbar8: and Elinor
Offinga were guests of Mizpha Lodge
No. 378 at a picnic at Sunland Park,
Sunland.
.
Picture Show each Friday night,
all through the y~ar. Films d~mat~
by six major studios: Columbia Pictures Corporation; Loew's Incorporated; RKO Radio Pictures Inco~r­
ated · Twentieth Century Fox-Film
CorPoration; Universal Film Exchanges, Inc., Warner Brothers.
June 5, 1949: Cqmpetitive Exhibition of 100 flying airplanes given on
the Masonic Home Athletic Field by
Pasadena Sonic Schmoos Club and
Pasadena Prop-Twisters Club. Sponsored by the Square and Compass
Club of Aerojet Engineering Corporation.
March 2, 1949-Installation of Officers of George Washington Chapter Order of De Molay, was held on
Ma'rch 2, 1949. Carl Wallen, class of
'49 was installed as Senior Deacon
and Tom Trebell, class of '52 was installed as an Alternate. William
Burkhalter, class of '50, is serving his
second term as Scribe. Dancing and
refreshments followed the ceremony.
May 5 1949-The Masonic Home
Second Degree Team put on their
Second Degree work at the meeting

VISITATIONS TO THE LODGES
Mr. Henry, Mrs. Henry and Children

March 31, 1949-Mrs Henry and
two Intermediate Boys were ipiests
of the "Two Point" Club Dinner.
This is a Masonic group affiliated
with the U. S. Rubber Company,
Montebello, California.
April 3, 1949-Mr. Henry was guest
of the Masonic Board of Relief at the
Fifteenth Annual Breakfast, Wilton
Hotel, Long Beach, California.
April 26, 1949-The Junior Girls,
accompanied by Mrs. Henry, were
guests at a joint meeting of Seaside
Lodge No. 504, Palos Verdes Lodge
No. 389, and Los Cerritos Lodge No.
674. The children participated in the
program.
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

May 1, 1949-Children from every
group in the Home participated in
Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles program, accompanied by Mr.
Henry.
May 3, 1949-Mrs. Henry, Patricia
Beard and Jacquelyn Adams were
guests at the dinner meeting of Signal Lodge No. 543.
May 6, 1949-Mr. Henry, Frank
Doherty, Bill Joy, Larry Ashurst,
Truman Darling and Mary Darling
were guests at the dinner meeting of
Azure Lodge No. 533.
May 25, 1949-Mr. Henry attended
the anniversary dinner of Mount
Olive Lodge No. 506.
COVINA. CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1948-1949
CONTRIBUTIONS
Ace Model Shop - model airplanes Allmond, Allen E.-maps, booklets·
(unassembled).
pamphlets; atlas, books; 2 tooi
·b oxes with tools.
Adams, D. Robert-greeting cards.
Adena Assembly No. 109, Order of Anderson, A. H. - walnuts, fresh
apricots, plums.
The Rainbow for Girls-assorted
Anderson, Mel - 6 "Baby Spitfire"
candy.
model airplane motors.
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No.
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625-jams,
595-preserves.
jellies, canned fruit.
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535$2.00 cash Christmas gift for each Anonymous-tickets to Shrine Charity Ball, games, toys, wrapped
child; 12 suitcases (new); ChristChristmas gifts, furniture building
mas cards, calendar pictures; ice
instruction books, calendars.
cream, candy, punch.
Arlington Lodge No. 414-candy.
Alexander, M.-fresh fruit.

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ashlar Lodge No. 306-jams, jellies.
Associated Travelers' Club- candy,
toys, dolls, games, miscellaneous.
Atwater Lodge No. 622-jams, jellies,
canned fruit, candy, miscellaneous.
Baer, Mr.-fruit cake and cookies.
Barstow Assembly No. 81, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls-Christmas
gifts.
Barteld, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. F.-preserves, jellies, canned fruits.
Bass, Mr. and Mrs. L. P.-magazines,
balsa wood, miscellaneous.
Beal, A. F.-magazines.
Begley, W. B.-jams, jellies, canned
fruit.
Bell Lodge No. 483-Easter candy,
canned fruit, jams, jellies.
Bellflower Assembly No. 35, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls-candy bars,
comic magazines.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509candy bars; constructor kits.
Bennett, H. M. - coloring books,
crayons, marbles.
Bernard, Robert - standard for Masonic Home sign.
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528 - ice
cream, cookies, comic books.
Blackburn, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph N.Scout pup tent, Scout signaler,
building blocks, canned fruit, preserves.
Bliss Film Delivery and Pickup weekly delivery and pickup service.
Bloeser, Donald W.-rugs and services.
Brier, Barbara-Christmas ,g ifts.
Carmelita Lodge No. 599 - Santa
Claus hair wig and beard, Christmas gift for each child.
Cartwright, Mrs. Arthur - miscellaneous.
Casey, Walter-2 punching bags.
Caswell, Frank C. - clothing, shoes,
toys, games, umbrella, color books,
cut-outs, dolls' clothing, Hallowe'en favors.
Chesney, Samuel J. - phonograph
records.
Christian, G. S.-Erector set, candy,
bicycle, tricycle, scooter, 2 wagons,
merry-go-round.
Christopher, E. A. - chair, miscellaneous.
Clayton, Dorsey - slides, projector,
screen.
Coachella Lodge No. 476 - fresh
dates; 2 new radios, 1 new steam
iron, 1 new electric iron.

Collier, George--magazines.
Columbia Assembly No. 67, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls-2 new radios.
Composite Lodge No. 639-jams, jellies.
Corona Lodge No. 324--electric sewing machine.
Covina High School-potatoes.
Cox, W. T. - Bullet motor for airplane model.
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559 - canned
fruit, jams, jellies.
Crawford, C. W. - cards, books,
beads, looms.
Croft, E. M.-books.
Crosby, W. D.-Masonic Home sign.
Crowder, Mrs.-dothing.
De Molay,Gardens Chapter-cookies.
De Molay, Guardian Chapter-toys,
candy, puzzles, comic books, clothing, miscellaneous.
De Molay, Guardian Chapter Mothers' Club--apples.
De Molay, Montebello Chaptercookies, gift wrappings, Christmas
cards.
De Molay, Palo Alto Chapter-clothing.
.
De Molay, Sunnyside Chapter-jams,
jellies.
Desert Holly Chapter No. 558, O.E.S.
-candy bars.
Devlin, James E.-10 tickets to Sheriffs Rodeo.
Downs, Mr. and Mrs. Frank-maps,
books, Geographies.
East San Diego Lodge No. 561books.
Eldridge, Howard-rocking horses.
Electa Club, Guardian Chapter No.
439, O.E.S. - Christmas gift for
every child.
Elrod, James D.-model airplane engine.
El Sereno Sciots Pyramid No. 50,
A.E.O.S. and Nifty-Fifties of Pyramid No. 50-Christmas trees, candy, oranges, books, games, toys,
stuffed animals; money for "snack"
treats.
Elwell, Mr. and Mrs. M.-model airplanes (unassembled).
Emanuel White Shrine No. 15 Christmas gifts.
Emera Club, Fallbrook Chapter No.
390, O.E.S.-hand-made quilt.
Emerick, William H.-med1cine ball,
books.
Emory, E. B.-Bullet motor for model plane.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

377

Estrella Del Estes Club, 0.E.S. No. Hovick, Mr. and Mrs. John H.444--Christmas gifts, cookies, popcandy.
corn balls; Easter bunny cookies.
Howard, A. R. - tickets to Shrine
Euclid Lodge No. 519-canned fruit
Charity Ball.
jams, jellies.
' Husbands, Thomas S. - American
Fahrney, Dr. F. W. - Shrine Circus
flag.
tickets.
Icide, Joe--bicycle; clothing, magaFord, B. C.-comic books.
zines.
Flaherty, W. J. - Bullet motor for Ihrig, Harold-punching bag gloves.
model plane,
Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691Forsch, Louis--2 new radios.
athletic equipment.
Fortune, Comd. W. C. - 6 shuttle- Island Pharmacy, Avalon-toys.
cocks, 6 sets wheels for models, Ives, Mrs. Mary - greeting cards for
assorted fittings.
scrapbook work.
Fowler, Mrs. Floyd E.-toilet acces- James Madison Lodge No. 572 - ice
sories, food for making children's
cream, canned fruit.
in-between-meal "snacks."
Jasmine Chapter No. 145---0.E.S.Franklin Chapter No. 20, R.A.M.sugar, Christmas stockings filled
olives.
with home-made candy.
Fry, E. Fletcher-toys.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 5-EastGaon, S. D.-candy.
er bunnies and candy.
Gardena Lodge No. 372 - Christmas Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 34-cangifts and miscellaneous, cash gift
dy bars, canned fruit, party cake
for each group for Easter treats.
mix, popcorn, comic books, games.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492 - canned Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 93-comfruit, jams, jellies.
ic books.
Gerhardt, Mrs. Herman - jigsaw Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 95-canpuzzles.
dy bars, games, comic books, .popGolden Poppy Assembly No. 85, Orcorn, canned fruit, party cake mix.
der of the Rainbow for Girls-jams Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 97and jellies.
greeting cards.
Golden State Lodge No. 358-canned Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 125 food, jams, jellies.
clothing, games, books.
Gordon, Mrs. P. H. - jams, jellies, Johnston, Mr. and Mrs. Edward cake, cookies, plum butter.
cookies.
Gorski, Gene--Easter baskets-filled Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Delbert-candy.
and wrapped.
Jungermann, Mrs. R. J.-clothing.
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670 - coffee Kalayjian, John-canned goods, pancream, lettuce, celery, jams, jellies,
cake flour.
fruit, canned goods, candy, miscel- Kinney, Mr. and Mrs. W. B.-jams,
laneous.
jellies, canned fruit.
Griffth, J. C.-booklets.
Knight, Mrs. Charles-avocados.
Gunther, W. H.-comic papers bound Krauss, Dr. L. Lee - scrap books,
into books.
comic magazines.
H.P. Sciots No. 48-cookies.
Lacy, Jesse E. - set boxing gloves,
Hamlett, Mrs. Elson-clothing.
baseball, mitt.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647-birthday Lamont, Corliss & Company-4 cases
cake.
Nestle's chocolate bars.
Hayes, Mr.-candy bars.
La Puente Chapter No. 325, O.E.S.Hendrix, Mrs. James F.-magazines.
$20.00 to Sue Burkhalter for vacaHendrix, W. R.-nails for boys' hobtion trip.
by shop.
Larchmont Lodge No. 614 - candy,
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662-assorttoys.
ment of candy.
Letts, Mr. and Mrs. Glenn-cookies.
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541 Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677-assorted
-toys.
Christmas gifts.
Hokanson, W. 0. - 1 year subscrip- Linceke, Albert-toys,
tion to Life magazine.
Lonsinger, Mrs. Claudia - "Wheat
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 - canned
boy" dolls, scrapbooks.
fruit, jams, jellies, 12 cases canned Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674-2 new
peaches.
electric sewing machines.

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Palms Chapter No. 491, O.E.S.-jigsaw puzzles.
Palms Lodge No. 512 - clothing,
magazines.
Parker, Tom-aerial gun sight, airplanes (unassembled).
Parsons, Mr. and Mrs. Ewell-books.
Pasadena Assembly No. 107, Order
of the Rainbow for Girls-coloring
books and crayons.
Pasadena Assembly, Social Order of
Beauceant-Christmas gifts.
Pasadena Hi Twelve Club-Christmas gifts.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-preserves,
jellies, canned fruit, Christmas
cake.
Past Matron and Patrons Association
of Coachella Valley-fresh dates.
Pasadena Scottish Rite-tinfoil.
Pat-A-Cake Bakery, Covina-bakery
goods.
Patterson, William E.-candy.
Peters, Carl F.-candy bars, cereal,
soup mix, tapioca, bouillon cubes,
thirst quencher, 15 cartons peanut
brittle.
Philips, Theodor G.-punching bag.
ra~ins.
J Pinsor, John-ice cream.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and So- Potashnick, Conrad-clothing.
journer Lodge No. 607 - candy, Powers, E. P.-candy, chewing gum.
toys; $2.00 cash gift to each child. Prentice, Mrs. Val-clothing, shoes,
miscellaneous.
Montebello Lodge No. 451- canned
Pulos, J. J., Fruit Company-grapefruit, jams, jellies.
fruit.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655-phonoPyle, Ivan L.-150 ready-made ''hot
graph records (new).
dog and bun" sandwiches.
Moore, Miss Donna--scrapbook, tinfoil
· Radiant Chapter No. ·421, 0.E.S. hand embroidered doilies, scarfs.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506 - jams;
Raker, Mr. and Mrs. Carl - jams,
jellies.
jellies, canned fruit.
Murphy, Clarence W. -6 tickets to
Ramona Chapter No. 97,. O.E.S. Electrical Exposition.
books, puzzles.
Myers, Irving L. - football, soccer
Reamy, Dan H. - books, pictures,
ball.
cushion, baseball and gloves, GeoNational Wildlife Federation - 1000
graphies, magazines.
Wildlife stamps.
Redwood City Rainbow-De Molay
Nottin~ham Company, M. C.-$65.00
Mothers' Club - phonograph reccredit on disposal service.
ords.
Officers' Association 87th Masonic
District-$1.00 cash Christmas gift Reseda Assembly No. 39, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls - chewing
for each child; 24 wool blankets
gum, cookies, canned fruits and
for Junior Girls' Building; wall
vegetables, jams, jellies.
clock, new; typewriter, new.
Lodge No. 666 - $9.00 for
Order of the Golden Slipper, Ma- Reseda
model airplane motors.
sonic Homes Club, Glendale Chap- Rhoads,
Charles-airplane models.
ter No. 422, O.E.S. - Christmas
Vista Assembly No. 76, Order of
gifts; sewing for the Junior boys Rio
the Rainbow for Girls - candy
and girls; pajamas made for all
bars.
junior children.
Rising Light Lodge No. "397--ChristOrinda Masonic Club-apples.
mas gifts, bicycle, 100 pounds popOroville Lodge No. 103-olives.
corn.

Loyaltf. Lodge No. 529 - redwood
furniture.
Lowe, Ray-pool sticks.
Mackey, P. E.-toys.
Manchester Lodge No. 585 - candy
bars, toys.
Margon, Don - 9 new framed pictures.
Marlaf, Al-Shrine Circus tickets.
Marshall Mrs. Ruth-greeting cards.
Marysvilie Assembly No. 10, Order
of the Rainbow Girls-clothing.
Masonic Group employed by The
Conveyor Co., Inc., Los Angelescanned pineapple.
Mason, W. B. - inlaid hand-made
prayer picture.
Mellos Peanut Company 100
pounds popcorn.
Melrose Lodge No. 602 - clothing,
puzzles, toys, miscellaneous.
Menorah Lodge No. 623 - 4 new
radios.
.
Meyer, Dan E.-greeting cards.
Miniature Motors, Inc. - 3 Bullet
motors, 1 Torpedo special motor
for model airplanes.
Moneta Lodge No. 405--<:andy, gum,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Rouse, B. B. - model airplane kits;
American flag.
Rowley, Mrs. Henry E. - preserves,
jellies, jam.
San Dimas Lodge No. 428-football
game tickets.
San Fernando Chapter No. 398, O.E.
S.-crochet cotton and hooks, yarn,
thread, sewing and knitting needles, sweater, bubble bath, talcum
powder.
San Gabriel Chapter No. 407, O.E.S.
Masonic Home Committee-Easter
favors for dining room tables.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452-magazines.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307-books.
Schenlinger, Leon-comic books.
Scudder, John-peanuts at the circus.
Seaside Lodge No. 504; Los Cerritos
Lodge No. 674; Palos Verdes Lodge
No. 389 - model airplanes (unassembled).
Service Lodge No. 594 - money for
vacation treats; 11h doz. softballs;
1h doz. ·b ats; 4 B-30 gloves; 4 baseball gloves; 1 baseball mitt.
Signal Lodge No. 543-framed pictures (new) for Senior Girls' Bldg.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296-musical
instruments, sheet music, instruction books.
Sklarr, Allan - Christmas gift of
necktie to each senior boy.
Smith, Ben F'..- tickets for football
game.
Smith, Mr. and Mrs. G. E.-miscellaneous Christmas gifts.
Snyder, M. E.-clothing, shoes.
Soule, Mrs. Al-Easter bunnies.
Southern California Lodge No. 278
-jams, jellies.
South Park Lodge No. 563 - homemade cookies.
Southern Pacific Square and Compass Club No. 1 - Christmas tree
lights, balloons.
Square and Compass Club of Aerojet
Engineering Corp., Azusa - model
airplanes and materials for assembling models.
Square and Compass Club, Los Angeles - U. S. and foreign stamps,
stamp albums and catalogs, stamp
magazines, scrapbooks of stamp
collectors' clippings.
St. Helena Lodge No.93-radio parts.
Standard Laboratories, Inc.-miscellaneous merchandise.
Star Circle of Palo Alto Chapter No.
213, O.E.S.-yardage.

379

Star Furniture Co., Inc., Los Angeles
-framed picture (new).
Stein, Adolph-preserves.
Steinberg, Harry-collection of foreign .p ostage stamps.
Steiner, L. E.-books.
Stockdale, G. Clayton-foreign postage stamps.
Stoddard, Bert-peanuts.
Sturdevant-Savage Company-model building tools.
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577 - games,
sewing sets, miscellaneous.
Taylor, Jack - miscellaneous radio
equipment.
Temple City Chapter No. 448 Club,
O.E.S. - Christmas gift for each
child; canned fruit, jams, jellies,
candy, comic books; sewing done
for the children.
Temple City Lodge No. 612. - ice
cream, canned fruit, jams, jellies,
comic books.
Thaxter, Earl-candy.
The Westerners-Christmas gift of
$5.00 cash for each child; canned
fruit, jams, jellies, games, puzzles.
Toone. H. W. - lumber for boys'
hobby shop.
Trietman, David-100 pounds mixed
nuts.
Trimu Club, Chapter No. 361, O.E.S.
-Christmas gifts.
University Lodge No. 394- Christmas gift of $2.00 cash to each child.
V asarhely, Charles-Geographies.
Wartenberg, Lee-6 ''Baby Spitfire"
model airplane engines.
Webber, Dale-Christmas fruit cake.
Weidener, Herbert-2 footballs.
Westgate, Mrs. Harry - doll house
complete with furniture.
White, C. W.-fresh carrots, lettuce,
cantaloupes.
Whittier Frozen Food Service frozen food.
Whittier Lodge No. 323 coffee
cream, lettuce, celery, jam, jellies,
fruit, canned goods, candy, cookies.
Williams, Mrs. A.-<:lothing.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198 - jams,
jellies, preserves.
Wisener, W. D. - tickets to Shrine
Charity Ball.
Woodruff, Joseph - set of Harvard
Classics.
Woolsey, William-rocking horses.
Worthy Matrons of 1948, 61st D~­
trict, O.E.S.-candy.
Young, Robert J.-book.
Zados Laboratories, Los Angeles Zados mouth wash.

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

381

COVINA CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND 1948-49

No. Lodge
Amount
1 California ···-····-···········* 25.00
2 Western Star..................
5.00
3 Tehama ..........................
10.00
10.00
9 Corinthian ......................
15.00
10 San Jose ........................
12 Yount ..............................
2.50
13 Nevada ·················-·········
2.50
16 Eureka ···········-···············
5.00
17 La Parfaite Union ........
5.00
19 San Joaquin ·········-·······
10.00
20 Wash~ton ....................
10.00
21 Hawanan ........................
25.00
22 Occidental ·········-····-·····
20.00
23 Madison ···················-·····
5.00
24 Mariposa ···········-···········
10.00
5.00
26 El Dorado ........................
30 Golden Gate ·········-·····25.00
32 Gold Hill ···················-···
5.00
25.00
35 San Diego .................:....
38 Santa Cruz ....................
10.00
10.00
40 Sacramento ....................
41 Martinez ..........................
10.00
43 Hiram..............................
5.00
44 Mount Moriah ..............
5.00
45 Crescent ·····-·········-········
5.00
51 llinoistown ....................
5.00
57 Santa Rosa ....................
10.00
58 Union ··········-··················
12.50
61 Live Oak ···················-···
25.00
64 Natoma······················-····
5.00
65 Amador ..........................
5.00
5.00
70 Enterprise ......................
78 Calaveras ·················-·····
10.00
2.50
79 Humboldt ......................
81 Yolo·························-·······
2.50
84 Vesper ·····················-·····
5.00
87 Naval ···················-·········
25.00
93 St. Helena ......................
5.00
2.50
95 Henry Clay ....................
99 Yosemite ........................
10.00
101 Clay ···················-·············
10.00
55.00
104 Lexington ......................
106 Arcata ·······················-·····
5.00
111 Chico ·········-··········-··-·····
10.00
113 Eden -···-··-············-······
10.00
122 Alamo ···--·······················
10.00
124 Table Mountain ............
10.00
126 Lafayette ·····-·················
5.00
127 Hermann ·····-·················
20.00
128 Visalia ···············-···········
10.00
131 Woodbridge....................
5.00
134 Vacaville ···············-·······
5.00
139 Crockett ··········-··············
15.00
144 Oriental ···················-·····
40.00
150 Molino ······-·····················
5.00
156 Woodland ·-···················
5.00
166 Excelsior -·········-····-·····
12.50
167 Alameda ........................
5.00

No. Lodge
168
169
175
178
179
180
181
188
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
203
206
208
209
210
211
212
215
217
218
219
220
222
224
225
226
228
240
246
247
253
256
258
259
261
262
265
267
268
269
272
277
278
279
280
282
283
285
286
287
290
292

R~d~ood CitY·········:····-

M1ss1on ............................
Antioch ···-················-···
Phoenix ..........................
Mendocino ......................
Petaluma ........................
Russian River ................
Oakland ..........................
Marin ·······················-·····
Santa Barbara ········-····
Ferndale ........................
Mountain View ............
Buckeye·····-···················
San Simeon ....................
Wilmington ....................
Hartley·····-·····················
Truckee ..........................
Confidence ......................
Stanislaus ......................
Rio Vista ····················-··
King David's ..................
Friendship ......................
San Benito ......................
S. San Francisco
Oak Grove ......................
Monterey ........................
Mosaic ............................
Speranza Italiana ..........
Downey ..........................
Roseville ........................
Bakersfield ....................
Brooklyn ···············-·······
San Mateo ......................
Athens ........................,...
Colusa ..............................
Pomona ..........................
Fresno ·················-·········
Landmark ......................
Lodi···················-·············
Penrhyn ..........................
Evergreen ·····-············-·
Tuscan ............................
Lompoc ·············-···········
Orlanc;i ............................
Galt·····-···························
Durant ·······················-···
Olive Branch ···-········-···
Pasadena ........................
Selma ·····-·······················
So. California ................
Hanford···············-·········
Madera ............................
Calayomi ........................
South West ....................
San Miguel ....................
Paso Robles ···············-···
Winnedumah ................
East Gate -.·-···················
Los Gatos ···················-···

Amount
10.00
12.50
10.00
20.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
20.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
20.00
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
9.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00

I

Amount
No. Lodge
Orange Grove ................
10.00
10.00
Dunsmuir ·····················- ·
Liberty ............................
10.00
37.30
Redlands ........................
10.00
Ontario ............................
5.00
Ashlar ..............................
5.00
Temescal ........................
5.00
South Gate ....................
5.00
Alisa! ..............................
50.00
Alhambra ......................
10.00
Corona ............................
5.00
Needles ..........................
25.00
Long Beach ....................
10.00
Redondo ..........................
10.00
San Pedro ......................
10.00
West Gate ......................
10.00
Fruitvale ........................
10.00
Qarquinez ......................
15.00
San Fernando ................
10.00
Palo Alto ........................
10.00
McKinley ........................
10.00
San Bernardino ............
10.00
Sequoia ..........................
10.00
Palestine ........................
5.00
Pinole ..............................
25.00
Mill Valley ·········-·········
2.50
Loyalton ........................
12.50
San Francisco ................
10.00
Berkeley ........................
5.00
Las Palmas ....................
10.00
Amity ..............................
15.00
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
85.00
372 Gardena ..........................
2.50
374 Jewel ..............................
12.50
375 Richmond ......................
10.00
376 Francis Drake ................
10.00
377 Artesia ............................
66.50
378 Mispah ............................
15.00
379 Fillmore ..........................
5.00
382 Highland Park ..............
10.00
384 El Centro ........................
10.00
385 Dinuba ............................
10.00
387 Coalinga ·····-···················
10.00
388 Parnassus ........................
25.00
389 Palos Verdes ·········-·······
50.00
393 Balder·······················-·····
10.00
396 Apollo ..............................
5.00
397 Rising Light ..................
20.00
400 Burlingame ....................
17.00
402 Brawley ..........................
5.00
403 Yerba Buena ..................
10.00
405 Moneta ·······················- ···
5.00
407 La Mesa ..........................
25.00
409 Honolulu ........................
10.00
410 Charter Rock ................
10.00
411 Perris ·············-····-·········
10.00
412 Calexico ..........................
5.00
415 Silver Trowel ···········-···
45.25
416 Lindsay ..........................
5.00
425 Holtville···············-··-···-

293
297
299
300
301
306
314
320
321
322
324
326
327
328
332
335
336
337
343
346
347
348
349
351
353
356
359
360
363
366
370

Amount
No. Lodge
5.00
Midway ..........................
20.00
San Dimas ......................
5.00
Pittsburg ........................
15.00
Alpha ..............................
25.00
Hammonton ..................
10.00
Fainnount ......................
5.00
Acacia ..............................
5.00
Standard ···············-·······
5.00
Coronado ·············----·-.
10.00
Torrance························5.00
Park ·······················-·······
15.00
MountOso ......................
25.00
Argonaut ........................
Morgan Hill ..................
8.95
10.00
Libertas ·····-·················20.00
Culver City ················-··
·Rockridge ......................
5.00
11.00
Delta·····-·························
25.00
America ..........................
10.00
477 Temblor ..........................
10.00
478 Thousand Oaks ..............
10.00
479 Golden Rule ..................
483 Bell ····························-····
10.00
12.50
484 Albert Pike ....................
17.50
486 Caledonia ........................
488 Patterson ........................ . 10.00
489 East Bay ..........................
5.00
491 Woodstock ......................
5.00
493 Atascadero ....................
5.00
494 Acorn ..............................
10.00
497 Fremont ..........................
20.00
499 Capital City ....................
10.00
500 Roosevelt ........................
5.00
502 Harbor ·····-···················5.00
503 Point ·····-················-·····5.00
507 El Segundo ·············--···
15.00
509 Benjamin Franklin ......
31.84
5.00
510 Cupertino ........................
511 Sunnyvale ......................
10.00
7.50
513 Cahuenga ........................
514 Argonne ..........................
15.00
10.00
516 Taft································10.00
518 La Jolla ·····- ··-······-··-···
521 Piedmont ·····-·······-·······
20.00
10.00
523 Bellfiower ......................
525 George Washington ....
5.00
10.00
526 Bay City ···············-····-·
527 Covenant ·····-·················
10.00
530 Sun Garden ·····-·············
25.00
531 Alexandria ·····-·············
5.00
535 Alexander Hamilton ....
16.00
539 Belvedere ·····-···············
21.50
540 Queen Beach ..................
15.00
541 Henry Morse Stephens
5.00
546 San Gabriel •...................
5.00
548 Triangle ..........................
10.00
550 Seaport·····-·····················
5.00
552 Semper Virens ·····-·······
10.00
555 White Pine ·············-·····
10.00

426
428
429
431
433
435
438
440
441
447
449
460
461
463
466
467
468
471
475

382
No.
558
561
574
575
576
578
580
581
589
590
592
593
595
596
598
599
603
609
615
619

620
621
622
629
633
635
636
638
640
643
645
648
661
662
667
668
673
676
680
681
686
690

1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
Lodge
Point Firmin ................
10.00
East San Diego ..............
10.00
10.00
S. W. Hackett ................
10.00
Fort Crook .................•....
10.00
El Cajon Valley ............
27.00
Progressive ....................
Santa Maria ..................
5.00
Security ..........................
5.00
Kauai ..............................
25.00
10.00
Compass ..........................
26.50
Tujunga ......................... .
All States ........................
10.00
Ale~ander Graham
10.00
Bell ···················-··-·······
Guardian ....................... .
5.00
25.00
Pearl Harbor ................. .
Carmelita ........................
90.00
10.00
Dimond ·····-···················
25.00
Provident ........................
Hemet ............................
10.00
10.00
Neptune·····-···················
Point Loma ....................
10.00
The Gardens ................. .
25.00
Atwater ......................... .
25.00
15.00
Fairview ....................... .
Poinsettia ......................
25.00
10.00
Riverside ·········-·············
John Marshall ..............
50.00
Indian Rock ................. .
10.00
Veritas ........................... .
2.50
Alta Loma ......................
10.00
A. F. E. Irwin ................
10.00
Damascus ......................
5.00
Malta .........- .................... .
5.00
Henry Knox ................. .
5.00
10.00
Meridian ···-···················
San Gorgonio ............... .
10.00
3.75
Far West·····-·················
Willow Glen ..................
5.00
Carmel •...........................
5.00
Dos Palos ........................
5.00
Albany ............................
5.00
San Carlos ..................... .
10.00

Total ···-··-··-············-·-···$3,396.59
CHAPTERS, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Francisco .................. 1 $ 5.00
Sacramento ·-··················· 3
5.00
Nevada City -·--···-·-····-8
5.00
Shasta -·---·-·············..-9
5.00
Sutter ·-······························· 11
2.50
Washington -···················· 13
5.00
Grass Valley ···-················· 18
2.50
Petaluma ·····-··-················· 22
2.50
Martinez ···-······················· 31
5.00
Los Angeles ·····-··············· 33
15.00
Naval ·············-··················· 35
5.00
Siloam ••.............................. 37
5.00

Chapter
No.
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
Donner ................................ 39
Chico ···--··-··············-······· 42
Visalia ................................ 44
Santa Rosa ........................ 45
Woodland .......................... 46
Dixon .................................. 48
Ventura-···························· 50
Humboldt .........................• 52
Keystone ............................ 56
San Luis ............................ 62
St. Helena •......................... 63
Riverside ············-·············· 67
Crown ................................ 72
HaDford .............................. 74
Pomona .............................. 76
Ferndale ............................ 78
San Pedro ·-······················· 78
San Pedro .......................... 89
Berkeley ·-························· 92
Palo Alto ·····-····················· 93
San Gabriel .....................•100
Redondo ··-·········-·············101
Marin -··-··········-········-·-·102
Ontario ····-·······················105
Mill Valley ···················-···108
El Centro -···················---109
South Pasadena ................112
Coalinga ···--··-················114
Sebastopol •.......................117
Hollywood ···-···················120
Huntaington Park ..........127
Inglewood ·····-··-······-··:....•131
Searchlight ·····-·················133
San Fernando ·······-··-·····136
Wilmington ···-····-··-·······141
Roseville ·····-·-··-·············146

Amt.
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50

Total ·······················-·····
$280.00
COMMANDERIES, K. T.

_Commanderg
No.
Amt.
Commandery
NO.:
Amt.
California ···-····················· 1 $ 12.50
Sacramento •..................... 2
5.00
Oroville .•............................ 5
10.00
Nevada .............................. 6
2.50
San Jose ............................ 10
5.00
Oakland .............................. 11
10.00
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
11.01
5.00
Naval ·--··--······················· 19
Woodland .....:.................... 21
5.00
Watsonville ...................... 22
5.00
10.00
Visalia ··········-···················· 26
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
5.00
2.50
Fresno ·············-················· 29
Pasadena .......................... 31
10.00
Mt. Shasta ........................ 32
10.00
20.00
Ukiah -···-··························· 33
2.50
Eureka ···········-\·············-·- 35

383

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commanderg
No.
So. California .................... 37
Vacaville ............................ 38
San Francisco .................. 41
Santa Cruz ·············-········· 44
Palo Alto ·················-········· 47
Alhambra .......................... 48
Redding ·······················-····· 50
Whittier .............................. 51
Auburn ·················-··········· 52
Hollywood ···················-··· 56
San Pedro .......................... 60
Calvary .............................. 62

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00

$243.51
Total ·························-···
COUNCILS, R. S. M,
Council
No.
Amt.
Sacramento ...................... 1 $ 5.00
M·arysville ........................ 3
5.00
Gateway ..............•............. 13
5.00
Pasadena ......................•..... 16
5.00
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
2.50
Fresno ................................ 18
2.50
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
5.00
Valley ·············-················· 27
Hollywood ........................ 33
2.50
Total ................................

$ 37.50

A.&: A. S. R,
Amt.
California Bodies ·················-··-$ 12.50
Los Angeles Bodies-Class of
1948 ·······-·-···············-············· 170.00
Oakland Bodies ·-··-··-·-···-··-··· 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ·········-··-··-·· 20.00
Sacramento Bodies ····-············- 12.50

Total ·-···-···-·····-··-··-··--$240.00
DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATIONS
Amt.
39th District
10.00
84th District ·····················--··-··· 20.00
87th District ······························- 33.22
88th District .......................•........ 10.00
93rd District ···················-··········· 66.53
lOlst District ···························-· 75.00

----·------$

Total -·-··-·-··-·-··-··-··----...$214.'75
CHAPTERS, 0. E, S.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Corona ···-··-··---·-··-··--107 $ 10.00
10.00
Santa Clara ···-··-··········--195
10.00
San Rafael ···-··-··-··-·······215
10.00
Mill Valley ···-··-·-···--··.219
10.00
Jewel ···-··-·-··-····-··-····-.238
5.00
Atascadero ···-······-··········.344

Chapter
No.
Siloam ·--··-··············-·······406
Searchlight ···················-···435
Melita ···-··-···················-··467
Sierra Madre Chapter ....

Amt.
10.00
28.10
9.00
35.00

$137.10
Total···-···························
ORDER OF RAINBOW FOR GIRLS
Asaemblg
No.
Amt.
Golden Poppy .................. 85 $ 28.00
Santa Maria ···············-····· 92
10.00
Paso Robles ......•..............• 99
10.00
Total·······-·······················

$ 48.00

ORDER OF JOB'S DAUGHTERS
Bethel
No.
Amt.
Huntington Park
Mothers' Club •............•
$ 5.00
Lynwood ........................:... 58
15.00
Total ................................

$ 20.00

INDIVIDUALS
AND MISCELLANEOUS
Amt.
Past Worthy Advisors Club of
Pacific Assembly ··-··---..$ 16.00
Frank Albitz ···-·······················- 10.00
E. Searle Wolf............................ 15.00
Mr. & Mrs. Fred Howard.......... 10.00
J. E. Vuillot ···-··········-··········-··· 4.00
Carl Raker ···-·····-····················· 25.00
W. B. Begley -·-··········-············· 5.00
A E. Forsell ................................ 30.00
Theodore R. Blair ·······-··-········· 24.00
E. H. Stevenson ···········-·-·········· 100.00
W. S. Dahlem·······-······-············· 10.00
Social Order of Beauceant........ 10.00
James J. Terrel........................._ 2.00
Six Thirty-three Club.
Ventura ···-··-··········-··-······-··· 10.00
Miguelita Circle ···-··-··-·-······· 5.00
Meriwether A Knapp ·····-··-·· 2.50
Low Twelve Club, Los
Angeles ···-······-··-··-··········-··· 25.00
Thos. O'Leary ·······-··-··········-··· 2.50
Juinistan Caldron No. 66,
Daughters of Mokanna ........ 50.00
Los Nietos Valley Craft No. 86 5.00
Henry S. Laird ··························- 5.00
George W. Cubitt........................ 5.00
Kemp Dawson·······-··-··············· 15.00
633 Club ···-··-··········-············--· 25.00
Frank L. Stamey ·······-··········-·- 50.00
Normal L. Nielsen···············-····· 13.00
Harry E. Burnett ···········-········· 5.00
Mr. & Mrs. Ralph Norrie
Blackbum···-················-··-····· 10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

384

385

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hollenbeck Chapter, DeMolay
Albert Denser ........................... .
S. J. Fisher ·······-·························
537 Club of Utopia Lodge....... .
Marion R. Gray ......................... ~
High Twelve Club of Hayward
Area ..........................................

5.00
1.00
15.00
20.00
25.00
25.00

CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL FUNDS

Amt.

Amt.
High Twelve Club of
Pasadena ..................................
Hollywood Hobby and Electric Shop ..................................
Paramount Square Club ..........
Union Pacific Masonic Club....

SCHOLARSHIP FUND

9.00

Superior Sacramento Valley Division of Order of DeMolay........ $126.25
William D. Sachau (Reimbursement) ............................................ 250.00

20.00
25.00
25.00

$276.25

Total ..........................................$659.00

HOMES STATISTICS
NUMBER OF RESIDENTS AS OF JULY 31, 1949
Decoto Home:
Men Women Total
301
180
Residents, August 1, 1948.................................. 121
49
21
Admitted ............................................................ 28
55
29
Died and withdrawn.......................................... 26
295
172
Residents, July 31, 1949.................................... 123
Covina Home:
Boys Girls Total
64
19
Residents, August 1, 1948.................................. 45
10
3
Admitted ············-··············································
7
15
3
Graduated and withdrawn................................ 12
59
19
Residents, July 31, 1949.................................... 40
PER CAPITA COST
Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal
Year Ending July 31. 1949
Deco to Home:
Cost of Maintenance .......................................................... 278,572.41
Average number of residents..............................................
298
Average operating cost per month...................................... 23,214.37
Average cost per day..........................................................
773.81
Average cost per resident per year.......... ~·······················,
934.81
Average cost per resident per month............. ,....................
77.90
Average cost per resident per day......................................
2.59
Average number of employees ....................................... ,....
83
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance ......................................................... . 129,306.36
62
Average number of residents............................................. .
Average operating cost per month..................................... . 10,775.53
359.85
Average cost per day......................................................... .
2,085.58
Average cost per child per year......................................... .
173.79
Average cost per child per month ..................................... .
5.79
Average cost per child per day................................:.......... .
29
Average number of employees........................................... .

COVINA SPECIAL FUND

'

Bethel No. 25, Jobs Daughters..................................................•.$
30.00
5.00
El Petrol Bethel No. 109.................... :............~·····-·····:····-··50.00
Palo Alto Rainbow No. 46......................... .-........ L• .:...................
146.00
Edison Masonic Qub...................... ~ ............. ~ .............................
50.00
600 Club ............................ :..........................................................
Doris & H. E. Gray.............................................................·......... 4,000.00
17.00
Mt. View Cemetery Employees............................................... -.
100.00
Mrs. Dolce Ughtner....................._. ................................:.... _.,.. .•...
25.00
Yucaipa Valley Masonic Cub.........................•
~----·······-w···
.
.
1,000.00
Jess1e· D. Stone.................................................•..........•..........•....
Estate of Madison T. Owens.............................•..•.............·-····· 7,623.47
Estate of Victoria McCu]]ough ................................................•. 3,584.76
Estate of Ernest Kenderson........................................................
169.23
Memorials ................................................................................... .
120.00
Thomas Boyd
W. E. Dougherty
R. L. Peacock
Guy Woodworth
Miscellaneous Contributions ..................................................... .
17.00
M ....

$16,937.46
DECOTO SPECIAL FUND

Edward C. Smith..........................................................................$ 25.00
Estate of Jesse McComas.............................................................. 3,568.31
Estate of Ernest Kenderson.......................................................... 169.23
Memorials ......................................................................................
10.00
C. A. Johanson
Matthew Morton, Jr.
$3,772.54

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BUILDING FUND
Estate of William A. Adams.·-······•'·········-·····························$ 10,730.95
9,861.58
•• Lulu Bartlett ····-······················································
1,542.20
.. Jacob Becker ............................................................
1,866.72
.. W eno R. Bergstrom...................................·...............
1,003.67
.. Herbert P. Blanchard ..............................................
" Alexander S. Daliiel................................................ 7,953.96
1,817.00
.. Alice L. Eisenhour....................................................
10,000.00
.. David Ewart ············-··············································
.. Ida P. Goodyear.....................................·-················ 19,076.46
.. Charles E. Grant................................................ ,:...: 2,500.00
.. Ruby E. Green...•••••................................•.................. 21,184.53
1,735.29
•• Fred 0. Harrison..................................................._.
.. William B. Maxwell................................................ 2,000.00
200.00
" Max Moskowitz ............................................_.......,..
325.62
.. John R. Orton........~·-·······-·········-··············:.........:..,.
513.97
.. Bertha Sherwood ....................................................
5,000.00
.. George W. Stiles..........................:...•.......................
.. John Tonningsen ....................................................... 2,948.11
$100,260.06

No.
1
2
3
5

'

8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21

22

23
24
25
26
27
30
32

33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51

55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91

93

387

ANNUAL RETURNS-1949
Grand
Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Lodge
Lodge
Homes Contribution
Contrib.
California ..........................
$ 767.20 $ 266.00
$ 450.00
$ 17.00
Western Star ....................
216.10
125.00
4.00
73.00
1,055.10
353.00
825.00
31.00
Tehama -·························
Benicia ..............................
316.50
105.00
12.00
300.00
Tuolumne ........................
339.35
120.50
175.00
6.00
Corinthian ........................
562.90
187.00
525.00
18.00
764.50
San Jose ............................
255.00
625.00
23.00
691.50
225.00
900.00
35.00
Yount -······························
Nevada ..............................
226.30
79.00
175.00
5.00
Temple ..............................
276.60
88.00
300.00
12.00
444.95
Eureka ..............................
148.50
350.00
13.00
156.55
La Parfaite Union ......... .
56.50
50.00
2.00
69.80
Mountain Shade ..............
24.00
50.00
1.00
San Joaquin ....................
1,043.35
350.50
825.00
27.00
1,087.70
Wash~gton ......................
361.00
950.00
37.00
685.30
239.00
400.00
11.00
Hawanan -························
1,039.55
Occidental ....................... .
366.50
375.00
14.00
432.70
Madison ............................
151.00
275.00
9.00
Mariposa ..........................
265.20
96.00
50.00
2.00
Georgetown ....................
79.95
28.50
25.00
1.00
368.55
El Dorado ..........................
116.50
21.00
525.00
156.50
Trinity ............................. .
55.00
125.00
4.00
915.55
306.50
Golden Gate ....................
950.00
36.00
148.35
50.50
Gold Hill ..........................
150.00
5.00
92.40
32.00
100.00
3.00
Ophir ·-···-·························
1,322.25
San Diego ........................
447.50
1,250.00
46.00
348.40
Howard ............................
122.00
225.00
8.00
638.15
214.50
Santa Cruz ........................
675.00
24.00
1,030.50
355.00
Sacramento ......................
625.00
25.00
556.20
186.00
350.00
14.00
Martinez ·-·······················
1,085.30
Los Angeles ......................
369.00
850.00
34.00
107.20
36.00
50.00
2.00
Hiram·-··-·····--·--···············
593.20
Mount Moriah ................
206.00
375.00
14.00
234.40
82.00
100.00
4.00
Crescent -·········---·············
76.50
25.00
75.00
3.00
Texas ·-·····························
155.85
Forbestown ......................
45.50
325.00
12.00
129.40
42.00
Illinoistown ......................
150.00
6.00
279.40
92.00
325.00
12.00
Suisun ·-··-·--······················
89.55
Volcano ........................... .
26.50
200.00
8.00
824.60
Santa Rosa ........................
278.00
575.00
21.00
1,009.20
336.00
725.00
29.00
Union -··--··················-···
87.00
Gravel Range ..................
30.00
75.00
3.00
295.35
90.50
500.00
20.00
Plumas-·····················-····
1,498.50
515.00
Live Oak ..........................
900.00
36.00
277.65
89.50
300.00
12.00
Natoma -······--····················
Amador ............................
129.05
41.50
100.00
4.00
Forest ................................
50.90
17.00
50.00
2.00
Morning Star ..................
926.85
295.50
1,225.00
49.00
421.65
Enterprise ........................
139.50
375.00
15.00
102.80
Bear Mountain ................
34.00
75.00
3.00
165.10
53.00
250.00
10.00
Calaveras -·················-·····
601.70
Humboldt ........................
201.00
625.00
25.00
139.25
47.50
100.00
4.00
Ione -····························- ···
113.55
36.50
150.00
6.00
Yolo-··································
323.35
110.50
125.00
5.00
Vesper ·-···························
1,647.20
556.00
1.100;00
44.00
Naval -·-····················- ·····
Rose's Bar ........................
49.25
17.50
North Star ........................
91.00
30.00
50.00
2.00
St. Helena ........................
160.55
56.50
25.00
1.00

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193

Grand
Lodge
114.30
125.50
639.70
136.50
474.20
725.00
402.30
505.15
628.95
61.05
620.90
523.25
777.40
557.50
274.40
193.10
302.40
311.10
777.95
142.70
250.45
131.20
245.55
134.80
844.40
843.35
105.90
150.95
210.25
553.75
166.95
392.65
340.65
299.50
236.00
367.75
39.75
25.95
684.65
243.25
752.25
990.65
211.70
59.30
433.70
922.50
177.35
473.95
162.85
117.05
77.90
65.70
80.25
64.75
237.45
1,319.60
128.40
764.30
468.25
139.65

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge

Henry Clay ......................
Homitos ............................
Yosemite ..........................

g~ili~·-·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Lexington ........................
Arcata ................................
Pajaro ................................
Chico·····--·························
Summit -·····················-···
Eden ·-·······························
Concord ............................
Fidelity ···-·······················
Alamo ............................... .
Sotoyome ·-····-··-·············
Table Mountain ..............
Lafayette ......................... .
Hermann ..........................
Visalia ·············-···············
Nicolaus ···-··-···················
Woodbridge ..................... .
Sincerity ...................•......
Vacaville ......................... .
Valley ·····-·························
Pacific ................................
Crockett ............................
Curtis -······························
Grafton ···············-······-···
Franklin ···················-·······
Oriental •...........................
Vitruvius ·····················-···
Abell ............................... .
Eel River ..........................
Lassen ·····--·····················
Molino ............................. .
Woodland ........................
Keystone ..........................
Harmony ......................... .
Excelsior ·············-···········
Alameda ......................... .
R«:d'Y'ood City ···········-·····
M1Ss1on ·-··-·······················
Elk Grove ....................... .
Drytown -············-·········
Antioch·-···························
Phoenix ............................
Mendocino ············-··········
Petaluma ......................... .
Russian River ·-···············
Arbuckle ·············-····-·····
Clear Lake ·······-···············
Sierra Valley ....................
Claiborne ·····-···················
Evening Star ·······-···········
Keith······-·····-···················
Oakland -·························
Northern Light ..............
Marin ................................
Santa Barbara ................
Ferndale ............................

Masonic $25:00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
39.00
50.00
2.00
45.00
100.00
4.00
201.00
700.00
28.00
45.00
125.00
5.00
156.00
450.00
16.00
230.00
950.00
34.00
119.00
725.00
28.00
164.50
350.00
14.00
208.50
650.00
26.00
21.50
50.00
2.00
187.00
975.00
37.00
167.50
475.00
19.00
272.00
500.00
17.00
175.00
700.00
26.00
92.00
200.00
8.00
63.00
400.00
13.00
102.00
225.00
9.00
103.00
275.00
11.00
258.50
575.00
23.00
51.00
25.00
1.00
83.50
150.00
6.00
46.00
125.00
5.00
86.50
100.00
4.00
44.00
125.00
5.00
292.00
550.00
20.00
290.50
600.00
22.00
37.00
75.00
3.00
48.50
100.00
4.00
67.50
225.00
9.00
192.50
350.00
14.00
58.50
125.00
5.00
129.50
375.00
15.00
109.50
375.00
15.00
102.00
200.00
8.00
80.00
250.00
6.00
122.50
350.00
14.00
12.50
50.00
2.00
8.50
50.00
2.00
239.50
350.00
14.00
77.50
250.00
10.00
257.50
525.00
18.00
339.50
550.00
22.00
71.00
150.00
6.00
19.00
100.00
3.00
141.00
450.00
17.00
315.00
600.00
23.00
60.50
125.00
5.00
158.50
450.00
18.00
55.50
125.00
5.00
41.50
25.00
27.00
50.00
1.00
21.00
27.50
50.00
2.00
22.50
50.00
2.00
83.50 .
75.00
3.00
458.00
750.00
28.00
42.00
3.00
75.00
259.00
525.00
21.00
157.50
11.00
300.00
49.50
75.00
3.00

No.
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203

'

204

205
206
207
208
209
210

211

212
.214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
2.24
225
226
2.28
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244

245

246

247

248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261

Lodge

Mountain View ............. .
Bucke;re ........................... .
San Simeon ···········-·········
Wilmington -····················
Hartley ............................. .
Truckee ........................... .
Silveyville ....................... .
Pentalpha ........................
Confidence ·················-·····
Salinas ·····-·······················
Olivet ............................... .
Stanislaus ....................... .
Anaheim ......................... .
Rio Vista ......................... .
King David's ···-···············
Friendship ........................
San Benito ........................
S. San Francisco............. .
San Buenaventura ......... .
Oak Grove ....................... .
Doric ................................. .
Monterey ..........................
Mosaic ............................. .
Speranza Italiana ......... .
Downey ........................... .
Inyo-·································
Roseville ..........................
Bakersfield ·············-·······
Brooklyn ·-·······················
San Mateo ....................... .
Athens ..............................
Solano ................................
North Butte ..................... .
Covelo ·······················-·····
Janesville ....................... .
Calistoga ..........................
Hope ..................................
Surprise Valley ............. .
Hills Ferry ·····-·················
Guadalupe ........................
Colusa -·-···························
Santa Ana ........................
Magnolia -························
Eucalyptus ....................... .
Alcatraz ........................... .
Laurel ................................
Pomona ............................
Fresno·····-·························
Alturas ............................. .
Adin ................................. .
Landmark ........................
Reading ............................
Welcome ·-·······················
Lodi·······-···························

Penrhyn ........................... .
Evergreen ........................
King Solomon's ..............
Tuscan ·-···························
262 Lompoc ........................... .
264 Hesperian ....................... .

Grand
Lodge

482.60
195.55
153.15
783.10
336.85
147.25
220.50
790.70
66.45
687.90
148.05
834.60
610.70
201.75
588.10
1,023.95
230.85
351.35
533.30
901.00
752.00
367.15
250.85
437.55
747.35
238.30
477.65
1,120.50
854.85
679.40
203.55
846.30
263.95
94.70
193.15
170.55
187.40
105.85
232.80
203.85
215.15
833.60
551.65
664.35
918.40
321.70
571.40
954.55
254.35
127.75
160.50
268.15
271.40
517.95
223.75
830.55
700.15
107.95
251.50
504.85

389

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
20.00
550.00
158.00
6.00
150.00
66.50
2.00
50.00
54.50
18.00
263.00
475.00
8.00
115.50
300.00
6.00
47.50
175.00
4.00
75.00
150.00
11.00
281.00
275.00
3.00
23.50
75.00
227.00
28.00
725.00
51.50
4.00
100.00
278.00
800.00
27.00
201.00
25.00
650.00
72.50
2.00
50.00
14.00
203.00
400.00
348.50
600.00
22.00
75.50
175.00
6.00
120.50
200.00
8.00
189.00
11.00
300.00
310.00
20.00
725.00
250.00
30.00
·775.00
124.50
11.00
300.00
85.50
175.00
7.00
156.50
75.00
3.00
240.50
825.00
28.00
79.00
8.00
200.00
159.50
16.00
425.00
372.00
925.00
34.00
295.50
475.00
19.00
212.00
925.00
36.00
66.50
225.00
8.00
289.00
600.00
22.00
88.50
200.00
8.00
31.00
150.00
6.00
64.50
200.00
8.00
56.50
150.00
6.00
62.00
125.00
5.00
35.50
125.00
5.00
74.00
250.00
10.00
65.50
225.00
9.00
74.50
100.00
4.00
278.00
825.00
27.00
189.50
450.00
15.00
210.50
850.00
29.00
302.00
1,075.00
43.00
111.00
175.00
8.00
192.00
625.00
19.00
316.50
1,075.00
43.00
80.50
300.00
12.00
42.50
175.00
7.00
55.00
75.00
3.00
94.50
100.00
4.00
92.00
175.00
7.00
178.50
300.00
12.00
72.50
225.00
8.00
296.50
350.00
9.00
244.50
300.00
12.00
38.50
1.00
25.00
85.00
250.00
10.00
165.50
550.00
22.00

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodge
265 Orland ..............................
266 North East ........................
267 Galt -···························-----268 Durant ·-·-·························
269 Olive Branch ................. .
271 Snow Mountain ..............
272 Pasadena ..........................
273 Anchor ............................. .
274 Arroyo ............................. .
275 Oakdale ............................
277 Selma ·--···························
278 So. California ..................
279 Hanford ............................
280 Madera -····························
281 Mount Shasta ..................
282 Oalayomi -····-·················
283 South West ......................
285 San Miguel ..................... .
286 Paso Robles ......................
287 Winnedumah ................. .
288 Maxwell ........................... .
289 Elsinore -···········-------·······
290 East Gate ...... ·············-···
291 Santa Paula ....................
292 Los Gatos ..........................
293 Orange Grove ..................
294 Traver - ·························
295 Mt. Jackson ......................
296 Silver Gate ......................
297 Dunsmuir ........................
299 Liberty -··························
300 Redlands ..........................
301 Ontario -···························
302 Santa Lucia ......................
303 Porterville ........................
304 Reedley ........................... .
305 Azusa ·············-------·-··--·····
306 Ashlar -··-·························
307 Santa Monica ------·-·······-~308 Monrovia ......................... .
309 Delano .............................
310 Sisson -·····························
312 Los Banos ....................... .
313 Tehachapi ....................... .
314 Temescal .........................
315 Norwalk ·······················---316 Sanger ..............................
317 Fallbrook ........................
318 Emanuel ·-····-·················...
319 Hollenbeck ......................
320 South Gate ..................... .
321 Alisa! -···-····----·-··············

322 Alhambra ..........................
Whittier ............,. ..............
Corona ...•..........................
Consuelo ······-------············
Needles ·····----····················
Long Beach ..................... .
Redondo ···············-·--········
Vallee de France •...........

323
324
325
326
327
328
329

Grand
Lodge
239.65
73.50
89.10
801.95
428.95
46.90
768.45
765.40
194.20
259.10
330.45
718.15
291.55
374.65
103.15
82.65
572.80
79.25
341.35
252.50
89.40
213.25
1,189.60
457.95
398.10
364.35
224.40
196.50
1,664.55
441.80
433.95
612.00
514.25
218.45
666.60
228.90
338.40
367.85
567.90
427.45
343.70
163.80
228.80
280.40
302.80
345.05
441.50
166.50
111.65
1,530.65
969.25
196.20
913.50
909.60
664.70
360.50
501.05
850.65
684.90
182.65

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib,
79.50
250.00
9.00
25.00
50.00
2.00
33.00
278.50
425.00
i5~oo
138.50
550.00
20.00
17.00
25.00
1.00
263.50
550.00
17.00
252.00
775.00
28.00
66.00
125.00
5.00
83.00
250.00
10.00
103.50
500.00
18.00
244.50
500.00
20.00
96.50
275.00
10.00
119.50
550.00
20.00
34.50
100.00
3.00
29.50
50.00
1.00
184.00
725.00
26.00
27.50
110.50
350.00
13.00
85.00
200.00
8.00
32.00
25.00
1.00
77.50
50.00
1.00
408.00
700.00
27.00
158.50
275.00
10.00
133.00
375.00
15.00
120.50
350.00
14.00
72.00
250.00
10.00
65.00
125.00
5.00
546.50
1,800.00
66.00
144.00
300.00
12.00
148.50
325.00
13.00
210.00
400.00
16.00
167.50
625.00
20.00
73.50
175.00
7.00
228.00
17.00
500.00
77.00
125.00
5.00
112.00
425.00
17.00
125.50
300.00
10.00
187.00
600.00
18.00
143.50
400.00
14.00
111.00
375.00
15.00
54.00
200.00
7.00
74.00
200.00
8.00
92.00
275.00
11.00
94.00
450.00
18.00
111.50
375.00
15.00
145.00
450.00
17.00
55.00
225.00
6.00
39.50
50.00
2.00
539.50
600.00
23.00
327.50
600.00
23.00
66.00
150:00
6.00
305.00
875.00
35.00
308.00
700.00
24.00
231.00
375.00
12.00
115.00
425.00
15.00
171.50
350.00
14.00
289.50
575.00
21.00
217.00
875.00
32.00
59.50
200.00
7.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Lodge

330 Kilauea ..............................

331 Paciftc Grove ..................
San Pedro - ·········-···········
Alta ·-·--·--····················-·
Covina -···············-·········
West Gate ........................
Fruitvale ..........................
Carquinez ........................
San Jacinto ·············- ·······
Fullerton -························
Oxnard ..............................
San Fernando ..................
Starr King ·-·····················
Brentwood ........................
Palo Alto -·-····················
McKinley ..........................
San Bernardino ..............
Sequoia ---··············-····Palestine ·-·····················Sunset ---····-····-····-·······
Pinole ·-················-···········
Presidio - ······················-··
Hollywood ........................
Mill Valley ......................
Buena Park ......................
Golden State ··-------··········
Loyalton -·-···················
San Francisco ..................
Fort Bragg - ······--············
Charity ···················-·········
Berkeley ···············-·········
Willits ................................
L as Palmas ·-········-·········
South Pasadena ..............
Unity - -·-···················
Ocean Park ......................
Amity - ···- ·······················
le Progres de L'Oceanie
Gardena - ·- ····-··---·······
West Los Angeles ..........
Jewel ··--········--···········
Richmond -·-·······-···········
Francis Drake ·····-···········
Artesia -··························
Mizpah -·-······-····-···········
Fillmore -········-············Huntin~on Beach ·····- ···
Oceanside - - -·--····- ···
Highland Park ·····-···- ···
Orosi ···- - - ····-······- ·····
384 El Centro ·-···-·····-··- ·······
385 Dinuba ..............................
387 Coalinga ............................

332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383

388
389
390
391
392
393
394

Parnassus ........................

Palos Verdes ·······-··-·······
Imperial -----··-··-········
East Belt ·······-····-···········
west Lake ·············-·········
Balder - ········---··-···
Univeralt7 ·····-····--··-

Grand
Lodge
356.35
345.75
733.75
119.95
432.50
1,398.20
1,280.25
259.00
140.60
541.50
548.60
716.35
762.10
185.40
959.15
679.95
1,000.10
1,522.20
858.10
556.95
240.70
773.30
1,612.05
597.65
315.30
1,219.25
141.45
456.20
194.75
195.60
941.35
222.80
1,411.75
832.45
895.45
697.15
668.70
943.70
437.85
583.95
288.95
761.35
454.60
236.75
617.40
311.35
461.75
469.45
859.85
192.15
560.90
408.80
537.30
1,033.10
995.30
171.25
133.40
1,348.20
703.70
882.30

391

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
225.00
9.00
120.50
13.00
400.00
112.50
19.00
475.00
252.50
7.00
200.00
38.50
14.00
375.00
145.00
45.00
1,275.00
476.00
21.00
447.50
550.00
6.00
150.00
90.00
5.00
125.00
48.00
14.00
375.00
185.00
31.00
178.00
825.00
32.00
925.00
230.50
17.00
425.00
263.00
175.00
6.00
62.00
24.00
850.00
324.50
20.00
500.00
228.50
30.00
850.00
333.00
42.00
975.00
516.00
21.00
550.00
293.00
8.00
250.00
198.50
150.00
6.00
81.00
17.00
425.00
269.00
39.00
1,075.00
551.50
25.00
625.00
199.50
16.00
425.00
99.00
22.00
600.00
427.50
10.00
250.00
43.50
10.00
275.00
156.00
11.00
275.00
62.50
6.00
200.00
68.00
25.00
625.00
320.50
6.00
175.00
74.00
59.00
1,525.00
462.50
22.00
600.00
283.50
34.00
950.00
293.50
21.00
525.00
234.50
400.00
15.00
231.00
875.00
26.00
311.00
11.00
300.00
145.50
650.00
24.00
188.50
16.00
400.00
88.50
325.00
13.00
270.50
22.00
575.00
148.00
14.00
375.00
72.50
14.00
350.00
212.00
5.00
150.00
110.50
16.00
400.00
152.50
27.00
825.00
143.50
33.00
850.00
285.50
5.00
150.00
64.50
16.00
450.00
187.00
19.00
500.00
134.00
26.00
650.00
169.00
26.00
725.00
353.00
19.00
475.00
349.00
5.00
150.00
57.50
8.00
200.0()
42.00
11.00
350.00
486.00
18.00
450.00
241.00
35.00
925.00
299.00

392
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

395 Turlock ............................
396 Apollo ............................... .
397 Rl8ing Light ................... .
399 Fraternity ....................... .
400 Burlingame ..................... .
401 Bay View ......................... .
402 Brawley ........................... .
403 Yerba Buena ....................
404 Glendora ......................... .
405 Moneta .•............................
406 Burbank ........................... .
407 La Mesa ........................... .
408 Sierra Madre ................. .
409 Honolulu ······-··················
410 Charter Rock ................. .
411 Perris ................................
412 Calexico ............................
414 Arlington ..........................
415 Silver Trowel ................. .
416 Lindsay ........................... .
417 Clovis ...•............................
418 Elysian ............................. .
419 Upland ............................. .
420 Kerman ·-·························
421 Inglewood ........................
422 Eagle Rock ..................... .
423 York ................................. .
424 Exeter ..............................
425 Holtville ..........................
426 Midway ·-·························
427 Chino Valley ................... .
428 San Dimas ....................... .
429 Pittsburg ......................... .
430 McCloud ......................... .
431 Alpha ··-··-·········-···············
433 Hammonton ................... .
434 Maricopa ......................... .
435 Fairmount ....................... .
436 · Claremont ........................
437 Lancaster ..........................
438 Acacia ............................. .
439 Tyrian ..............................
440 Standard ......................... .
441 Coronado ......................... .
442 Blackmer ···················- ·····
443 Schofield ..........................
444 Carpinteria ..................... .
445 Wilshire ........................... .
446 La Puente ....................... .
447 Torrance ..........................
448 Mount Diablo ................. .
449 Park ····-···-·······················
450 Van Nuys ........................
451 Montebello ..................... .
452 San Pasqual ................... .
453 Bethlehem ....................... .
454 Crocker ........................... .
455 Golden West ................... .
457 Ramona ........................... .
458 Henry S. Orme ................

Grand
Lodge
505.75
639.00
1,513.95
629.00
884.20
854.75
305.50
1,206.80
194.25
1,011.00
921.65
673.90
201.45
517.35
511.90
216.10
23<>.00
510.10
558.55
309.15
582.90
654.05
299.80
134.45
976.50
687.60
483.20
286.55
184.00
686.45
182.65
241.75
388.65
148.75
721.65
84.00
252.00
700.65
162.85
339.45
77.90
226.15
517.25
515.60
1,786.95
373.80
172.90
775.20
235.00
550.20
428.25
705.60
914.65
798.55
699.05
477.25
578.95
809.30
667.05
958.25

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
600.00
21.00
162.50
15.00
400.00
220.00
2,425.00
96.00
468.50
275.00
10.00
220.00
750.00
28.00
296.00
44.00
1,100.00
272.50
. 17.00
425.00
95.00
36.00
1,300.00
394.00
3.00
100.00
67.50
15.00
400.00
360.00
31.00
825.00
299.50
35.00
1,025.00
217.00
9.00
475.00
63.50
19.00
500.00
170.50
12.00
350.00
177.00
6.00
175.00
73.00
6.00
150.00
80.00
5.00
150.00
183.00
17.00 •
450.00
186.50
6.00
150.00
104.50
23.00
600.00
187.00
13.00
300.00
231.50
15.00
450.00
94.00
7.00
175.00
43.50
32.00
825.00
325.00
26.00
700.00
228.00
17.00
450.00
156.00
12.00
300.00
96.50
11.00
275.00
60.00
18.00
425.00
233.50
8.00
200.00
59.50
3.00
125.00
82.50
16.00
400.00
129.50
3.00
75.00
52.50
25.00
625.00
239.50
1.00
25.00
30.00
3.00
75.00
90.00
22.00
550.00
239.50
3.00
75.00
55.50
10.00
275.00
113.50
2.00
50.00
27.00
8.00
200.00
74.50
13.00
325.00
177.50
550.00
21.00
168.00
83.00
2,175.00
568.50
13.00
325.00
124.00
6.00
150.00
57.00
18.00
475.00
266.00
13.00
325.00
70.00
26.00
650.00
176.00
18.00
475.00
137.50
20.00
525.00
238.00
42.00
1,075.00
289.50
41.00
1,075.00
246.50
33.00
825.00
221.50
14.00
375.00
157.50
25.00
650.00
188.50
18.00
475.00
279.00
21.00
550.00
221.50
26.00
650.00
327.50

No.

..

459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
619

Lodge

Riverbank ....................... .
Mount Oso ....................... .
Argonaut ......................... .
Paul Revere ................... .
Morgan Hill ................... .
Alta Vista ....................... .
Center ..............................
Libertas ··-·······-----------------Culver City ......................
Rockridge ········----·····-···--Yorba Linda ....................
Lincoln ............................. .
Delta ............................... .
Maui ................................. .
Blythe •.............................
Victory ............................. .
America ....•.......................
Coachella ....................... .
Temblor ............................
Thousand Oaks ............. .
Golden Rule ....................
Fellowship ..................... .
Mt. Davidson ·····-····--····Clarence F. Smith ......... .
Bell ................................... .
Albert Pike ..................... .
Chowchilla ..................... .
Caledonia ....................... .
Vallejo ............................. .
Patterson ....................... .
East Bay ......................... .
Corcoran ......................... .
Woodstock ........................
Garvanza ······--------············
Atascadero ..................... .
Acorn ············-··················
Lebanon ........................... .
Fremont ........................... .
Stockton .•....•.....................
Capital City ................... .
Roosevelt ..........................
Westwood ....................... .
Harbor ···-·····················-··Point ·····-··-······················Seaside ............................. .
Silver Cord ..................... .
Mount Olive ................... .
El Segundo ..................... .
Joppa ···············-···············
Benjamin Franklin ....... .
Cupertino ....................... .
Sunnyvale ....................... .
Palms ·····-··········--·············
Cahuenga ....................... .
Argonne ........................... .
Vermont Square ............
Taft ······--·-·························
Mount Vernon ................
La Jolla -············-------···----Euclid ............................... .

Grand
Lodge
193.10
445.75
614.70
842.60
203.00
386.80
710.55
799.60
479.05
676.10
211.70
499.00
690.25
365.55
170.55
419.40
736.35
261.50
218.10
663.55
857.45
464.20
577.40
556.45
867.45
356.85
206.55
669.40
569.40
179.45
556.30
186.35
567.45
404.55
134.95
849.10
567.75
·747.60
266.45
648.40
289.80
398.40
838.85
380.95
719.70
695.20
1,433.00
464.50
112.85
502.30
228.85
448.40
613.70
764.75
537.35
733.40
430.95
333.10
359.50
568.95

393

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1 G. W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
250.00
10.00
63.00
475.00
16.00
142.50
475.00
18.00
211.00
775.00
31.00
278.00
125.00
4.00
70.00
275.00
11.00
134.00
825.00
31.00
236.50
1,025.00
39.00
258.00
600.00
24.00
151.50
625.00
25.00
223.00
150.00
6.00
71.00
250.00
10.00
170.00
800.00
31.00
227.50
175.00
6.00
126.50
175.00
7.00
56.50
275.00
11.00
142.00
350.00
14.00
250.50
250.00
10.00
85.00
200.00
8.00
73.00
550.00
17.00
226.50
775.00
29.00
283.50
325.00
13.00
156.00
475.00
19.00
192.00
425.00
17.00
183.50
1,000.00
39.00
283.50
175.00
7.00
125.50
250.00
9.00
66.50
650.00
25.00
222.00
400.00
15.00
192.00
225.00
9.00
53.50
400.00
16.00
189.00
200.00
8.00
60.50
550.00
22.00
183.50
450.00
15.00
136.50
50.00
2.00
48.50
975.00
35.00
273.00
500.00
19.00
192.50
1,025.00
41.00
238.00
100.00
4.00
93.50
575.00
22.00
212.00
250.00
10.00
94.00
375.00
15.00
132.00
1,400.00
54.00
255.50
575.00
23.00
118.50
500.00
20.00
241.00
475.00
16.00
236.00
775.00
29.00
- 500.00
600.00
23.00
145.00
225.00
9.00
35.50
350.00
14.00
169.00
200.00
7.00
75.50
550.00
22.00
142.00
575.00
20.00
201.00
975.00
30.00
252.50
425.00
11.00
190.50
400.00
14.00
252.00
225.00
9.00
148.50
250.00
10.00
113.00
400.00
7.00
125.00
500.00
20.00
188.50

394
No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

520 Ionic ···-·····························
521 Piedmont ..........................
522 Sunrise ···-·························
523 Bellflower ........................
524 Catalina Island ................
525
526
527 Covenant ..........................
528 Beverly Hills ..................
529 Loyalty ·········-·················
530 Sun Garden ···-·················
531 Alexandria ......................
532 Smyrna ···-·······················
533 Azure ................................
534 Forest Hill ····-·················
535 Alexander Hamilton ·-···
536 Seal Rock ·········-···············
537 Utopia ···--··-···················
538 Ascot ·····--····-···················
539 Belvedere ···················-···
540 Queen Beach ....................
541 Henry Morse Stephens..
542 Lankershim ......................
543 Signal ···--······-·················
544 Glendale ·····-···················
545 Jonathan ···-···················
546 San Gabriel ......................
547 Arcadia ····-·····················
548 Triangle ........................... .
549 Justice ..............................
550 Seaport ..............................
551 Lak.eshore ........................
552 Semper Virens ................
554 Educator ····--·················
555 White Pine --·················
556 Fairfax ···-··--···················
557 Hermosa ···-·····················
558 Point Firmin ....................
559 Craftsmen --·-··················
560 Plymouth ···--···················
561 East San Diego ................
562 Pyramid ····-·····················
563 South Park ···-················
564 Foothill ···-·-·················
565 West Adams ·····-·············
566 James A. Garfield ..........
567 Searchlight ···-····-···········
568 Park Boulevard ·-···········
569 Chateau Thierry -··········
570 Military Service ..............
571 Francis K. Shattuck ......
572 James Madison ................
573 Hillcrest ···--·-·················
574 S. W. Hackett ···-···········
575 Fort Crook ···--··-···········
576 El Cajon Valley ..............
577 Sunnyside ···--····-··-·······
578 Progressive ......................
579 Warren G. Harding ......
580 Santa Maria -···-·············

~:r~rty~-~~~!~~..::::::

Grand
Lodge
1,081.35
432.25
477.60
559.85
223.10
680.20
520.70
471.80
678.95
640.40
747.15
244.95
150.55
327.85
252.40
333.65
290.60
1,002.45
493.20
325.00
277.35
468.40
991.05
699.05
950.85
292.10
573.90
470.25
348.55
519.45
351.50
411.40
366.05
536.05
153.25
484.25
429.50
518.00
602.85
531.20
1,020.00
402.55
581.70
973.00
436.55
337.95
703.85
561.10
503.20
520.95
375.60
535.90
101.80
823.75
218.65
339.45
679.15
717.95
644.05
160.10

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
2,200.00
69.00
340.50
17.00
475.00
137.50
450.00
17.00
158.00
22.00
600.00
175.50
8.00
200.00
73.00
21.00
575.00
226.00
14.00
350.00
171.00
7.00
175.00
164.00
31.00
975.00
218.50
23.00
575.00
212.00
33.00
825.00
244.50
10.00
300.00
78.50
12.00
325.00
46.50
175.00
5.00
115.50
8.00
200.00
82.00
13.00
350.00
109.50
21.00
525.00
88.00
25.00
675.00
343.50
15.00
400.00
166.00
9.00
225.00
110.00
10.00
250.00
90.50
6.00
150.00
162.00
42.00
1,075.00
311.50
22.00
550.00
231.50
29.00
950.00
315.50
15.00
375.00
93.00
35.00
925.00
177.00
16.00
525.00
157.50
10.00
250.00
116.50
18.00
475.00
173.50
13.00
325.00
115.00
18.00
450.00
132.00
24.00
600.00
111.50
26.00
700.00
171.50
9.00
225.00
47.50
700.00
26.00
147.50
13.00
325.00
145.00
300.00
10.00
180.00
15.00
375.00
205.50
176.00
525.00
20.00
40.00
1,000.00
330.00
9.00
225.00
136.50
16.00
400.00
201.00
47.00
1,200.00
300.00
12.00
300.00
146.50
14.00
350.00
108.50
23.00
235.50
600.00
25.00
183.00
650.00
16.00
400.00
166.00
20.00
525.00
168.50
11.00
275.00
128.00
25.00
167.00
650.00
4.00
100.00
34.00
38.00
1,000.00
262.50
10.00
250.00
69.50
20.00
575.00
103.50
22.00
550.00
224.50
875.00
34.00
228.50
675.00
27.00
211.50
6.00
200.00
53.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

...

581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
840
641
642

Lodge

Security ............................
Rialto ·-·····························
W·a sco ···-·························
Harding -·-·······················
Manchester - ····················
Garden Grove ................
Valley Forge ................... .
El Sereno ..........................
Kauai ···--···-·····················
Compass ..........................
Escalon .•............................
Tujunga ............................
All States ..........................
Service ..............................
Alexander Graham Bell
Guardian ·····-···················
Pearl Harbor ....................
Carmelita ....................... .
Lynwood ..........................
Grizzly ..............................
Melrose ............................
Dimond •...........................
Jubilee ............................. .
Glassell Park ..................
Sojourner ........................
Granada ···-···················
Provident ···-···················
Elmhurst ···-···················
Canoga ·····-··-···················
Temple City ·····- ·············
Three Pillars ....................
Larchmont ......................
Hemet···--·························
R. E. Dolley -················--··
Big Bear -·-···················
Southland ··-················--·
Neptune ............................
Point Loma ......................
The Gardens ....................
Atwater ·····-·····················
Menorah ............................
Fortitude ..........................
Angeles Mesa ..................
Chula Vista ·····-···············
Lamanda Park ................
Truth ···-··-·····················
Fairview ··--···················
Ingleside ..........................
Benevolence ·····-·············
Normal Heights ..............
Poinsettia ···-~---················
Victorville ···--··-·············
Riverside ···-····-···············
John Marshall ................
Palisades ··--··-···············
Indian Rock ·····-·············
Composite ···--··-·············
Veritas ..............................
James A. Foshay ............
La Cumbre ---····-·······

Grand
Lodge
539.65
204.55
439.00
349.85
531.90
285.10
529.25
597.45
180.70
340.05
193.05
333.20
777.20
1,058.30
400.75
1,132.85
865.85
452.00
528.35
205.10
335.65
401.25
472.25
603.25
310.10
1,029.75
559.55
337.90
301.35
512.30
541.40
578.50
215.75
314.55
214.55
432.80
365.30
715.85
576.95
505.80
1,073.55
280.75
884.35
503.10
332.00
359.15
372.45
248.70
392.15
838.30
776.50
280.65
519.20
391.35
531.45
285.60
529.20
177.30
366.05
328.25

395

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
18.00
500.00
179.50
6.00
150.00
66.50
26.00
650.00
130.00
12.00
425.00
115.50
14.00
350.00
177.00
13.00
325.00
93.00
16.00
400.00
177.50
25.00
625.00
193.50
6.00
150.00
61.00
13.00
111.50
400.00
6.00
150.00
61.50
7.00
225.00
116.00
25.00
750.00
256.00
54.00
1,400.00
329.00
14.00
375.00
132.50
50.00
1,700.00
355.50
36.00
900.00
275.50
20.00
500.00
150.00
21.00
525.00
170.50
2.00
75.00
73.00
14.00
350.00
109.50
10.00
275.00
137.50
17.00
475.00
157.50
24.00
625.00
197.50
18.00
525.00
93.00
48.00
1,375.00
332.50
19.00
500.00
186.50
18.00
475.00
107.00
10.00
275.00
100.50
28.00
750.00
159.00
15.00
375.00
182.00
30.00
775.00
185.00
'4.00
100.00
72.50
17.00
450.00
96.50
11.00
300.00
66.50
15.00
400.00
144.00
15.00
375.00
119.00
34.00
950.00
225.50
22.00
550.00
188.50
13.00
350.00
174.00
1,400.00
51.00
346.50
250.00 .
9.00
92.50
31.00
825.00
290.50
32.00
825.00
153.00
13.00
375.00
110.00
200.00
8.00
124.50
14.00
350.00
123.50
10.00
300.00
81.00
175.00
6.00
134.50
1,200.00
46.00
259.00
16.00
500.00
265.00
12.00
300.00
89.50
25.00
650.00
166.00
10.00
325.00
130.50
675.00
23.00
173.50
8.00
200.00
98.00
22.00
625.00
166.00
150.00
6.00
59.00
16.00
400.00
111.50
400.00
14.00
107.50

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand
Lodge
499.50
341.55
376.45
176.25
501.45
762.40
629.25
370.60
323.55
505.90
394.15
507.05
803.30
243.35
852.70
223.00
233.00
210.45
356.95
623.35
143.20
159.70
367.45
691.40
322.10
346.70
612.30
98.70
257.55
462.10
430.50
581.00
386.15
386.50
576.60
173.90
197.85
138.90
383.15
132.50
192.05
409.65
235.05
304.25
220.35
88.95
260.65
276.90
185.45
178.20
147.40
124.70
258.80
96.95
73.30
199.50
146.90
59.50
76.25

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes • Contribution Contrib.
165.00
475.00
18.00
116.50
225.00
7.00
123.50
425.00
17.00
57.50
200.00
8.00
143.50
975.00
39.00
242.00
950.00
36.00
217.50
475.00
19.00
128.00
200.00
8.00
96.50
625.00
24.00
167.00
525.00
17.00
124.50
575.00
22.00
151.50
500.00
20.00
259.00
900.00
36.00
80.50
300.00
12.00
281.00
1,025.00
36.00
60.00
575.00
23.00
80.00
125.00
4.00
63.50
325.00
13.00
108.50
16.00
400.00
210.50
400.00
16.00
46.00
150.00
5.00
51.00
200.00
7.00
666 Reseda ..............................
113.50
18.00
475.00
667 Meridian ..........................
212.00
1,100.00
37.00
668 San Gorgonio ..................
103.00
16.00
400.00
669 John P. Jarman ..............
111.00
16.00
450.00
670 Greenleaf ..........................
199.00
950.00
33.00
671 San Clemente ..................
31.00
50.00
2.00
672 Laguna Beach ...........•......
86.50
150.00
6.00
673 Far West ..........................
143.00
22.00
550.00
674 Los Cerritos ....................
135.00
22.00
550.00
675 Modesto ............................
190.00
14.00
375.00
676 Willow Glen ....................
124.50
525.00
19.00
677 Liberal Arts ....................
125.00
13.00
400.00
678 Altadena ..........................
188.00
25.00
725.00
679 Canby's Cross ..................
57.00
12.00
350.00
680 Carmel •..- .........................
65.50
11.00
325.00
681 Dos Palos ..........................
47.00
100.00
4.00
682 Barstow ..........................114.50
27.00
700.00
683 Redwood Empire ............
35.00
14.00
350.00
684 Trona ................................
61.50
9.00
225.00
685 San Marino ......................
139.50
375.00
14.00
686 Albany ..............................
71.50
325.00
13.00
687 Vista ..................................
97.50
11.00
350.00
688 Oildale ..............................
60.50
500.00
18.00
689 Pohona ..............................
28.50
100.00
4.00
690 San Carlos ........................
79.50
500.00
20.00
691 Indian Wells Valley ..•...
77.00
675.00
23.00
692 Travelers ..........................
43.50
750.00
27.00
693 Palm Springs ..................
46.00
650.00
19.00
694 San Antonio ....................
32.00
550.00
22.00
695 Meudell ..............................
31.00
13.00
375.00
696 Crossroads ........................
44.00
1,200.00
41.00
697 St. Elmo ............................
18.50
575.00
23.00
698 Wm. D. Stephens..............
19.00
300.00
9.00
U.D. Bixby Knolls ....................
35.00
41.00
1,300.00
U.D. Ponderosa ........................
27.00
975.00
33.00
U.D. Santa Ynez Valley..........
15.00
525.00
10.00
U.D. Rosemead ......................... .
17.50
400.00
12.00
U.D. Westchester ......................
200.00
TOTAL ............................ $283,857.70 $94,091.00 $267,800.00 $9,948.00

No.
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662

Lodge
Alta Loma ......... _.............
Lomita ····-·······.................
A. F. E. Irwin ..................
Metropolitan ....................
Hawthorne ......................
Damascus ...- .....................
Florence ............................
La Brea ............................
Menlo Park ···-·················
Crescenta Valley ............
Fontana ............................
Jordan ..............................
Monte Vista ....................
Citrol ................................
John D. Spreckels ..........
Livingston ..................:.....
La Habra ..........................
Baldwin Park ..................
Malta ................................
H~~ry Knox ....................

~~~ ~~~~ah···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

397

STANDING COMMITTEES

GENERAL APPENDIX

JURISPRUDENCE
CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees ·····-····--··-····-····--····················································397
Special Committees ··--·--·-···-··-··-··-·············-············································400
Constitutional Boards ............................................................................ 402
Directors of Masonic Clubhouses .......................................................... 403
Registration and Mileage Paymen.ts......................................................404
List of Constituent Lodges...................................:..................................439
Extinct Lodges ······-··-·-··-····································-····································450
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization............................. .454
List of lnspectors....................... ~ .................................. - .................: .........460
Foreign Grand Lodges............................................................................463
Alphabetical List of Lodges..................................................•.................468
Correspondence Report .......................................................................... 475

John Stewart Ross (384) ..........·-··-··········-·········-·-1017 El Paso Dr., Los Angeles 42
George L. Jones (23) ......·-···························-··-·············-·-··-·--·····--···---·Nevacla City
Earl Warren (349) ....................................................______ _state Capitol, Sacramento 14
John W. Shenk (367) •.........................................____,•..state Building, San Francisco 2
Oscar Lawler (290) .....-··············-····················•·.800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
John R. Moore (667) ....................................--·········-··W S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Clinton T. Duffy (191) ...........•........-···-··························-······--...-....San Quentin
John H. Ferguson..................................·-·-·-·········-·········-·-62i W. 1st St., Long Beach 2
(M. No. 327)
Ralph Heckler............................................................633i Goodland Pl., North Hollywood
(Sr. W. No. 506)

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Wm. Rhodes Hervey (202) .................. _......................till S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Will H. Fischer (H5) ...........-···--···--······--...... 123 S. Mariposa Ave., Los Angeles 4
Wm. B. Ogden (355) ................................_....725 Bank of America Bldg., Los Angeles 14
Rollie W. Miller (352) ..................,.........................Assodated Realty Bldg., Los Angeles
Leslie E. Wood (609) •.•- .•·-····-·····-···-···············-·····-·-···-··611 "J'' St., Sacramento 14
Henry C. Clausen (630) .....................- .................315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Chester H. Warlow (247) ............-···········-······....... 1004 Security Bank Bldg.. Fresno 1
John R. Garside......- .......................•................................SOS Washington Ave., Richmond
(M. No. 3i7)
Frank E. Jameson...................................................-·····-··-·······-.2Si San Jose, Los Gatos
(Sr. W. No. 292)

FINANCE
Claude H. Morrison (35) ........................- ......................................Box 1311, San Diego 12
F. Wesley Davies (577) .............•..-···-·····-·····--................&t9 San Vicente Rd., Arcadia
John W. Davey (260)_............--·····-·······-···············-···..216i Hyde St., San Francisco 9
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ..........-·······················-·····-··-·-·--··-·-··.I3oz 887, Bakersfteld
Edward H. Siems (560)-••·-··--······-··--·····-······-·-----1106 Broadway, Oakland 4
James Leo Warcl............................................................................806 "J" St., Crescent City
(M. No. 45)
Arthur M. Loomis................................................................i12 W. 6th St., Los Angeles 14
(Sr. W. No. 698)

GRIEVANCES
Frank B. Belcher (H5) .....-················---········-···-····--510 So. Spring St.. Los Angeles

Joe L. Shell (35) ........................................- ...................<:ounty Court House, San Diego
Albert F. Ross (254) ················-·································-·----·--······-·········-·'R.eddtng
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ............................................_. __ tll Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Ralph E. Hoyt (268) ...........................................-········-·-···.89 Hillcrest Road, Berkeley
Paul A. Brom............................................................_ .......i5i8 Fairbairn Ave., Oakland 19
(M. No. 336)
James R. Gray..........................................................3Si S. Orange Grove, Los Angeles 36
(Sr. W. No. 484)

398

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

399

CREDENTIAI.S

RETURNS

Louis Sutter (225)-- -··-························----Anglo-Californla Banlc, San Francisco 20
Wilbur D. Crosby (Orinda) -······················-··-~-·---..26 Claremont Ave., Orinda
C. Stanley Chapman (339) ..................................·-·-······---Cha_p!JWl Ranch, Fullerton
Thomas F. Mason (198) ......................................·-····-····916 N. ~emont. Los Angeles
Edward T. Koford (291) ........................................_.Bank of America Bldg., Santa Rosa
Graham A. ·Backus..-..••.................................•...........•••••..3157 W. 78th Pl., Los Angeles 43
(M. No. 595)
Samuel W. Williams -------·---··----.....--···--··--·--·-··-·-···-·-··-····· Portola
(Sr. W. No. 234)

Henry G. Mathewson (514)--··-···········-··-··-·-·--- - --869 Walnut St., Alameda
Francis J. Herz (464)--················----·--······....2358 - 14th Ave., San Francisco
William G. Buxton (429)---···-·······················-·-··'···- - l . 3 2 1 Maple St., Pittsburg
E. Lloyd Hanson (494)-···-········-·····-······-··--····~1175 Wellington St., Oakland 2
Dan Bosschart (435) .....................................................55 San Lorenzo St., San Francisco
Roy Greer--····-·····························-·········-··---·--·---1326 Lincoln St.. Red Bluff
(M. Vesper No. 84)
Desmond Barton...........·-···-···-·······-·····-····--·--·········--Fernwood Park, Topanga
(Sr. W. Canoga No. 611)

PAY OF MEMBERS

,

Loyd C. Campbell (352) .....·-······-··················-·········-··-········-5741 S. 1st Sl, Vernon 11
John N. Bacigalupi (191) ...-····················-······---------·-······-108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
Phil N. Myers (430)-.-----··········-······-··-·········--·····_p· 0. Box 158, McCloud
Herbert N. Waugh (418)--- ·········-·-····--·-·········--·-'···.......212 W. 7th St., Los Angeles
Albert V. Youngs (623) ..................................:................---315 N. Fairview, Burbank
Wm. H. Mc:Gaughy.._........................·-·-·····-··········-······Route 2, Box 445-B, Redlands
.
(M. No. 300)
Gordon R. Stelner·-······--·······-··------············--···150 E. Jefferson, Pomona
(Sr. W. No. 246)

CHARTERS
Glenn C. Holmes (681)-..............................:.....·-········----P. 0. Box 91, Mendota
Wm. R. Hervey, Jr. (202) ............................................458 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Wm. J. Williams (685)_.-·-················-···············--1476 Bradbury Road, San Marino
Harold Meyer (481)---'···································..224.3 - 34th Ave., San Francisco 16
Ralph W. Collins (566)-............................:..,......._..811 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 14
George E. Ruppen·-·················································--1559 S. Carson, Los Angeles 35
(M. No. 515)
Rue W. Sl.m&...·-·--··-··-············-·-----·--···-····-...2225 - 108th Ave., Oakland 5
(Sr. W . No. 188)

BY-LAWS
Oakley K. Morton (259) ·-····························································---Courthouse. Riverside
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ............:..............................- .......:...._.c;
_ _Marfpoea
Stewart B. Andrews (494) ................................................108 Hillside Ave., Piedmont 11
Wm. W. McKee (642)---··········-·-··-·············-:····---17 Oriole Road, Santa Barbara
Wm. Keog}{ (422)---·- ··························'····················J9ot2 Scadla Way, Los Angeles
Philo Rogers
San Juan Bautista
······-···-·-·····-··-·-··cM~r~f;.·46T ___ _
Wayne Gleason...._

.___________

- - - - - - P . 0. Box 628, Westwood
(Jr. W. 501)

LIBRARY
George Kemper (22)-............................................_401 California St., San Francisco 4
Andrew L. Johnston (388)_•..,......................................J6S - 14th Avenue, San Francisco
Arthur J. Kahn (462) ...- ..........................................-20ff Bryant St., San Francisco 10
Andrew H. Burke (549) ------······-··············--·..25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
114 Manor Drive, Piedmont
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ..... _ .....................
Ray A. Perley~···-·········-···--·····-···--··-··-·----5742 Fleming Ave., Oakland 5
(M. Foothill No. 564)
Joseph A. ~tL..............._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 14.f ldora Ave., San Francisco 16
·
(Sr. W. Occidental No. 22)

CORRESPONDENCE

•

James K. Fisk (410)_............·-···············-···Hoed Shattuck, Berkeley 4
Oscar C. Olsen (497)_.................................:..........209S - 29th Ave., San Francisco 16
Frederick 0. Eaton (210) ___________:_____.............. .
78f Laurel St.• San Jose 11
Newcomb Condee (614) ______
. ----····---··-Han of Records, Los Angeles 12
Herbert G. Polhill (327) .....____4()5 Farmers f:J Merchants Bank Bldg., Long Beach 12
Edwin R. Brooks
717 Bissell Ave., Richmond
(M. Alpha No. 431)
Clyde 0. Hughes (519
.
..-.1240 Valley Blvd., Rosemead
(Jr. W. Euclid No. 519)

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
CENTENNIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Francis V. Keesling (1)-···-·--··········-------.315 Montgomery Sl, San Francisco
Carl Olsen (497)
··············--···········---600 Tribune Tower Bldg., Oakland 12
Herbert R. Hargrave (530) ......·-·······················----1620 W. Belmont Ave., Fresno 1
Harvey Teller (1)---·········--··············--:.........--822 - 32nd Ave., San Francisco
Cyril Weeks (120)---··········-················--~·-····-·---3S32 Pierce St., San Francisco 23
Henry C. Davl.L-.................---·-·-··-····__p· 0. Box 116, Laguna Beach
(M. Laguna Beach No. 6n)
Earl B. Myera...................- - - 15 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
(Sr. W. Par West No. 673)

LODGE FINANCING
Walter L. Berger (392)--···-··············-···-···- · 640 So. Spring St, Los Angeles 14
Walton E. Holmes (40)---·-·-·······-······-····--Capltal National Banlc, Sacramento 14
Walter Pybon (166)--········-················----·· ~ California St., San Francisco 4
Edward J. Blickfeldt (535)~--------·····--------590 Hargrave St., Inglewood
Thomas Copeland (190)----·--··-P. G. f:J E.• Red Bluff
George L. Costenmoyer -··-- ···---·-···-·····-·····-·-···--...:-..---Aabuc:lde
(M. Arbuckle No. 182)
Thomas HurleJ-------···1778 - 43rd Ave., San Francisco 22
(Sr. W. Parnassus No. .388)

NECROLOGY
Roy C. Bryan (513) --'-···-···-···········-·······-----829 Longwood Ave., Los Angeles 5
Ross K. Roper (360) ....-······--··············-··-······---1009 Oakes Blvd., San Leandro
Frank Everett (646)·-···-·····················-··········- --3282 Veteran Ave., Los Angeles 34
Harry M. Kaiser--··············--·------·-··-·.-723 Soquel Ave., Santa Cruz
(M. Santa Cruz No. 38)
J. Ray Thompson......_ .......
Rt l, Box 27, Huntington Beach
(Sr. W. Huntington Beach No. 380)

400

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

401

DE MOLAY

SPECIAL COMMITTEES

Charles E. Listenwalter (392) .................- .........375 So. Rimpau Blvd., Los Angeles 5
Thurman D. Moyers (366) ......................................- ...···-···--·-830 Normal St., Fresno 4
Kay V. Smith (580) .............................- ............- ............ j229 San Miguel, Lemon Grove
Harold F. Butterfield (635) ..............................---·--···--··-·-Courthouse, Riverside
Henry Honaker (566) .....................---··--······-·-···--....309 W. Palm Ave., Compton
Walter Flierl (243) ...-····-···-·---··---·----···
.-P. 0. Box 123, Hayward
Raymond S. Kimbell (22) ........... _ ....................- ........46 Allston Way, San Francisco 16
Francis W. Peters (319) ...·--··-··--·-···-····--.. ·····__s.f7 Oakford Dr., Los Angeles 22

RITUAL
Walter H. E. vonKonsky (550) ..................................877 Valencia St .. San Francisco 10
Mervyn E. Hanshaw (471) ····--······-···········-·--············.12JJI W. Walnut St.. Stockton
Elbert W. Davis (571 )--·························-··························-·····2908 Russell St.. Berkeley
Obed W. Carr (303) -···-················----·-······-····-···--···········--·····207 Dolores Ave,. Exeter
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) •...................- ....................621 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 14

M;\SONIC HISTORY

MEMORIAL BUILDING

Leon 0. Whitsell (293) ..- ..............................................1565 Newlands Ave., Burlingame
Charles R. Ingram (23) ........·------.-·-··-·-····-···········-··········P. 0. Box 393, San Rafael
Wilson E. Newlon (541 )--······-·····---················-·····:.........981 Miller Ave.. Berkeley 8
Samuel Steelman (325 )--··················--··-········-········-650 So. Spring St.. Los Angeles 14
Ben R. Walker (247)-----·····-··············-··--···-·-·-···-······-'···············-···(y(,7 Pine, Fresno

Charles E. Moore (630) ...................--····----··---···
·p. 0. Box 658, Los Gatos
James Hurst ( 1)--···---········-·-··--·--·····----·--··tSS Montgomery St .• San Francisco 4
Henry J. Brunnier (481) ..........................- ..................._...'2100 Green St., San Francisco

MASONIC INFORMATION
Henry W. Coil (635) .....·--··········-·····-······--······-···················-·····---Box 512, Riverside

Ira W. Coburn (216) ..........- ........-----·-.. ····-·--····-·2M8 Market St., San Francisco
John A. Klarquist (445) ..... _ ...........- .......................618 S. Western Ave., Los Angeles 5
John Bovey (166) ..........................................................464 California St., San Francisco 4

COLUMBIA TEMPLE RESTORATION

Alvin Wendt (506)----·····························---·········-··-·······-·····Route 2, Box 3556, Aptos
Robert F. Shippee (458)--------------------------······--·····408 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE
William R. McKay (596) ...........- .............................. 1116 Hall of Records, Los Angeles
James T. Fraser (79)---··········----·-·--··········------·······........432 W. Hawthorne, Eureka
Lee T. Mullen (329) .. ____ .......:···..····-··--.............306 W. Third St, Los Angeles 13
Dudley H. Nebeker (403)--'---·---····--·--········-·--········---..-·-···1419 Broadway, Oakland 12
William P. Self (431)---·-·······-········----·····..···----------:.,,......- ..612 Bissell Ave., Richmond

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
George D. Gavin ( 144) ............................_ .......79 New Montgomery St.. San Francisco
Robert A. Odell (418)---·····-··-···-·-··-··--·--·.1011 Van Nuys Building, Los Angeles 14
John M. Lee (506)--------·-··------·-···:.·-···--·410 Blackwood St., North Sacramento
Robert G. Woll (35)--------------···--··--------·---·--·---313'1 Gregory St., San Diego 4
Charles W. Lunsford (378) ....._.........................................1503 W. 79th St., Los Angeles

SOCIAL SECURITY AND UNEMPLOYMENT TAX
R. P. Wisecarver (478) .............----··-·-··---·-.....315 Montgomery St.. San Francisco 4
James E. Hammond (568) ....................--·---··--··--·.....:.111 Sutter St.. San Francisco 4
Robert R. York (349)._.................................,.....................-1924 Broadway, Oakland 12

MASONIC HISTORY PUBLICATION
Washington I. Kohnke (640) ................................686 Sacramento St., San Francisco 11
John T. Bond (355).-----····--····--·-···-···-······-·-···-624 W. Wilton Pl., Los Angeles 5
Elmer Lotz (585) ................................----·--·--··--·-1627 Maple Ave., Los Angeles

. .

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUB HOUSES

403

ENDOWMENT BOARD

BERKELEY

Ernest G. Bashor (352)--··········-····················-·····600 Edwards-Wildey Bldg., L.A. 14
Edmund A. Lockett (599)-........................................552 South Raymond St., Pasadena 2
James T. Fraser (79)·-······························-·················-432 W. Hawthorne St., Eureka
Roz 891, Santa Monica
Ira D. Wheeler (637)......................................................
Orno E. Tyler (442) .....................................................---..3921 Kansas St., San Diego 4
Clovis J. Robert (202) ..............................................-576 San Marino Ave., San Gabriel
Lester A. Price (379) --········-······-·························-·_ _153 Saratoga St., Fillmore
Byron Coleman (453) ···-····-··········--·········-·····-'···-.220 Montgomery St., San Francisco
Leonard R. Avilla (346) _.........................................-1717 Middlefield Road, Palo Alto
Walter H. Ireland (516)-....................................---Route 1, Box 679A. Porterville
20?1 - 28th St., Sacramento
Harry A. Nauman, Jr. (58) -....................................
Albert E. Gordon (378)_............................................3700 Northland Dr., Los Angeles 43
Olen T. Turner (505).,...........--···-··--·····-······-·····---lID W. Ninth St., Santa Ana
Carl F. LaVo (243)---·········--·················-··························-...2867 Rex Road, Hayward

Carlisle D. Nielsen (541) .................................~---170 Ardmore Rd., Berkeley
R. P. Wisecarver (478) ...................... _ ..,.............3.15. Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Boyd B. Rakestraw (541) ......................................--121 Tamalpais Road, Berkeley 8
Earl Warren (349) ..............................................·-·······-Statit Capitol, Sacramento 14
Russell C. Horstmann (336) ___....................................
Qty Hall, Oakland
Frank R. Killinger, Jr. (336).....................................
1221 Walnut St., Alameda
Leo E. Sievert (685) ....;.......................................___t14 Sansome St., San Francisco 4
Paul S. Boren (551 ) --·······:······-····---·-··-·
1947 Tiffin Road, Oakland

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Chas. M. Wpllenberg, President (344) ....................2070 Pacific Ave., San Francisco 9
Leonard Gross, Vice-President (654)-················-·-·······-7411 E. Third St., Downey
Chas. Albert Adams (166) ....................................Monadnock Building, San Francisco 5
L. Harold Anderson (346) ································-······-.245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Ralph H. Head (352)--·································700 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles
Myron E. Smith (394)---·············-················--.203 Union Oil Building, Los Angeles
Arthur Paulsen (394 )--···········································-··--·-·-·-·····--····----Weaverville
Louis C. Drapeau .(633)-...........................................-11 02 State Bldg., Los Angeles 12
Arthur M. Warren (481) ..................................................3060 - 16th St., San Francisco 3

BOARD OF CONTROL
Jack C. Butler (58)_...........................................218 Capital National Bank. Sacramento
..3111 Edith Lane, San Diego 6
John T. Martin (657).,.......................................
Guy A. Toole (577)-......................................... _200 E. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles 54
Harry F. White (347)-···········································----1261 Broadway, Fresno 1
Reginald M. Mills (61) ..............................................--1061 Market St., San Francisco

LOS ANGELES
Ellsworth Meyer, Chrmn. (677) ...........................~1 Escarpa Dr., Los Angeles 41
A. Curtis Smith, V-Chrmn. (618) ..................... _
.....2U N. Elm. Dr., Beverly Hills
C. Earle Crane, Sec-Treas. (528) .......................---8915 Burton Way, Los Angeles 12
John Stewart Ross (384)._................................--1017 El Paso Dr., Los Angeles 42
Qyde C. Shoemaker (566) ~-··········-···-··-····-._._117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
John A. Klarquist (445) ............... ·············-·········-618 S. Western Ave., Los Angeles 5
Oscar Lawler (290)
...............................-.......,...800 Standard Oil Bldg., L.A. 15
Elvin C. Drake (677) .. _ ..................-....- ............._1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504)-.:..·'····················'·····---f1S5 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327) ........................................ _lSOS Armando Rd., Long Beach 7
William R. Gallagher (467) ....................................-Muak:lpal Court, Los Angeles 12
John M. Askin (278}---··-·······-···························~--701..C Hall of Justice, L.A. 12
Howard M~ Wilson, (677) - .................................--357 N. Crescent Dr.• Beverly Hills
Herbert H. Cooper (614) .....- ................................... 19Sf Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

Representativi:s

Mileqe Allowed

California -··-·---···No. !....Charles C. Trowbridge, Jr., Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Senior Warden
Ralph E. Mott, Junior Warden
Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master
and Grand Treasurer
Edward C. Lohmeyer, Past Master and Inspector
Lee Crawford, Past Master
James Hurst. Past Master
James F. McKay, Jr., Past Master
Ralph W. Scott, Past Master
Walter A. Scott, Past Master
Ralph G. Wadsworth, Past Master
Western Star ·-····-·--·-·-No. 2....Gerald L. Moody, Senior Warden..................$31.82
Bernard E. Gilmore
Tehama .... __________ No. 3... .Kenneth L. Malcolm, Master....... --···-··-··--··· 7.24
Gerald C. McKinley, Senior Warden
Wm. E. Templeman, Jr.• Junior Warden
Geo. H. Olmsted, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia -·-----~..- ........._ .. No. 5....1)\\rfi)ht E. Wood, Junior Warden.................. 3.10
C. W. Arnold, Past Master
L. X. Carroll, Past Master
Tuolumne .....:.......................No. 8....Bernard H. Cowgill, Master............................ 10.86
Charles C. Hale, Past Master and Inspector.. 9.66
Corinthian ··-·-·---•........No. 9....Nelsoo E. Borthwick, Master..........·-··-···-·- 8.30
R. Barr Shaver, Senior Warden
James W. Robinson, Past Master & Inspector 8.30
Geo. W. Williams. Past Master
San Jose -·--·-···-··--···-No.10....Ralph E. Richards, Master.._...........- ....- ....... 3.92
Elwood H. Austin, Senior Warden
Jos. S. Greenley, Past Master
Yount .....................- ........ No. 12....J\nC:n ~~tk~:,S~!ni~-W~de~ ....................... 3.20
Geo. N. Ball, Junior Warden
Nevada ·······-"-··-····-·---·No. 13....George B. Legg, Master .................................. 12.34
Wm. M. Gracey, Past Master
Temple ...............- -...No. li....Victor F. Lindahl, Master................................ 3.00
James P. Goddard, Senior Warden
John N. Evans, Past Master
Eureka ·---····-··-·--··No. 16....Charles E. Beckman, Master.·-··-·······---·····- 7.30
Wm. E. Marshall, Senior Warden
La Parfalte Union -·--·No. 17-.Andre L. Armand, Senior Warden
Edward J. Lagarde, Junior Warden
Rene Canonica, Past Master & Inspector
Brewster F. Ames, Past Master
Ray J. Malfantl, Past Master
Jules Ramond, Past Master
Mountain Shade -···-····--·No. 18....A. R. Hinton, Master........- .............................. 22.68
San Joaquin ......................No. 19.... 0scar H. Breitenbucher, Senior Warden........ 6.86
Washington -----..........;.No. 20....Alfred F. Schance, Master-.............................. 7.24
Raymond A. Wiesler, Senior Warden
John J. Haken, Past Master
Hawaiian ----···----··No. 21....Winston E. McPherson, Master......................331.20
Ellwood C. Wilder, Past Master

Name of Lodge

Occidental ...............-

No. of Lodge

Representatives

405
Mileaae Allowed

...No. 22 .... Harold W. Koenig, Master
Joseph A. Bennett, Senior Warden
Robt. P. Elder, Junior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master & Inspector
F. J. Angell, Past Master
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
William Bouton, Past Master
Raymond S. Kimbell, Past Master
Madison ...................- ....No. 23.... Harold L. Houser, Master-...····-·-··------· 12.34
Edward Farley, Senior Warden
Edmund W. Ferguson, Junior Warden
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master.............. 12.34
Mariposa ----·--.......No. 24....Harry L. Odgers, Master-·--- ······---·-·--·- 22.80
James P. McElliott, Past Master
Georgetown --·-··-··--···-··No. 25....Thomas M. Hawkins, Master...·--··---····---- 8.90
Robert W. Veerkamp, Senior Warden
El Dorado ···-··-···-···-·-No. 26....Robert M. Reeder, Master·-··-····----··---· 11.96
Brittain J. Dellis, Senior Warden
John P. Simpson, Past Master and Inspector.. 11.96
Trinity ............................._No. 27....Frank E. Hicks, Senior Warden...................... 29.38
Arthur Paulsen, Senior Grand Warden.......... 29.38
Golden Gate ..............._ ..No. 30....Randolph M. Rosso, Senior Warden
Gold Hill ;..:......................No. 32....A.lbert Guilliford, Master...............................- 9.00
Glen Smart, Senior Warden
Ophir ................................No. 33....Charles A. Palmer, Senior Warden................ 952
San Diego ·····-·-······-No. 35.... Fred E. Lawrence, Master·--··--········---··- 50.84
R. M. Culbertson, Junior Warden
Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master...... 50.84
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master and Inspector.- 50.84
Robert M. McDonald, Past Master
Joe L. Shell, Past Master...............................-. 50.84
Howard ..........- .................No. 37....G. R. Morningstar, Senior Warden................ 33.56
Santa Cruz ...................- .•No, 38.... Harry M. Kaiser, Master...........................-..... 6.32
Frank B. Cordery, Senior Warden
Gustaf E. Wahlberg, Junior Warden
Henry Kaiser, Past Master and Inspector...... 6.32
Edwin R. Hoff, Past Master
Roy L. M~fleld, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master
Sacramento __ ...............No. 40....William M. Thielbabr, Master...................- .• 7.24
Alfred M. Fisher, Senior Warden
Nathan Gartner, Junior Warden
Harry M. Baker, Past Master
Walton E. Holmes, Past Master
Martinez ......................._ ..No. 41....Hugh C. Roberts, Master................................ 2.30
Benjamin P. Schleifer, Senior Warden
Stephen F. Ball.
Hugh P. Roberts, Past Master
Los Angeles ......................No. 42....Armin J. Bauerle, Master .................................. 47.56
Nathan Scheer, Senior Warden
Hiram - .................._, __No. 43....Robt. B. Penny.Past Master&Representative 9.80
Mount Moriah .........____No. 44....Jack W. Leishman, Master
Gerold H. Wierds, Senior Warden
Leland B. Thrower, Junior Warden
Daniel B. Richards, Past Master
Crescent -·-----···-·No. 45....James L. Ward, Master...........................--·· 32.86

406

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Texas ---·······-··-···--·-.No. 46....Philo Rogers, Master ···-··································· 5.60
Forbestown --··-······-····-·No. 50....Bernhard Goeken, Past Master
Illlnoistown ······-···-··--No. 51....H. R. Kauffman, Master·-·····-·························· 19.60
Suisun -·---······-···········No. 55....R. Glenn Hollar, Master.·--···--······················· 4.02
Russell M. Cole, Junior Warden
Volcano -----------------No. 56....Paul H. Bosse, Master..·---------···················· 8.50
Santa Rosa ----·········--·····-No. 57....CarvU W. Marlatt, Master.............................. 4.18
Gorm A. Vogensen, Senior Warden
Lee C. Shea, Junior Warden
L. Everett Richardson, Past Master &
4.18
E. Inspector
L. Barnett,····-·--········---·-······························
Past Master__________________ 4.18
Union - - - -

...No. 58....Hiltner S. Small, Master----·················--- 7.24
Otto F. Link, Senior Warden
Edward G. Stillwell, Junior Warden
Leighton D. Armstrong, Past Master &
Inspector ........................................................ 7.24
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Howard S. Mcintire, Past Master
Earl V. Otwell, Past Master
Gravel Range --•··········--No. 59.... Paul McKee, Representative ............................ 18.00
.
Eric W. Nelson, Past Master & Inspector...... 8.30
Plumas -----------No. 60....Not Represented.
Live Oak ------·-···--·----No. 61....Herbert J. Brondson, Senior Warden
Laurence E . Dayton, Junior Warden
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
Frank K. Mott, Past Master
Clarence A. Severin, Past Master
Natoma ---·-·········-------No. 64.... Norton A. Archer, Master·····-······················ 8.34
Amador --···-----·---·---No. 65....Alfred A. Penrose, Jr., Master ........................ 10.44
Forest ····-··-·--------·-..No. 66.... Not Represented.
Morning star ····----------No. 68....r~a:
J~~~~~~i~~-:w~;a~~------·······--· 6.86
Fred T. Schooley, Junior Warden
Stanley H. Wentz, Past Master & Inspector 6.86
. _No. 70....Hugh D. Moncur, P. M. & Representative.... 9.80
Enterprise -------Bear Mountain -·····----No. 76....Bert Minard, Master -···-·····------------------------····· 9.66
Calaveras ________No. 78....James L. Poe, Master.·------------ --·· 9.68
Humboldt _________ _No. 79....Edward M. Davis, Senior Warden._. ____ 30.78
James T. Fraser, Past Grand Master............ 30.78
Ione - - ---. No. 80....Herbert L. Coney, Senior Warden. _____________ 9.64
J. Wesley Sibloe, Past Master & Inspector.... 9.64

J.·

Yolo

----------····--·No· 81._Paul
W. Reiff, Master --··········-····················· 7.24
Charles E. Patton, Past Master

Vesper ----------·----No· 84....LeRoy Greer, Master ........................................ 24.16
Naval -----··-·-···--No. 87....John G. Nichol, Master ·······------······················ 2.70
Milton I. Dawson, Senior Warden
Melvin C. Baker, Junior Warden
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Mart T . Andrews, Past Master
Joseph Brouss, Past Master
David R. Doherty, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master

Name ol. Lodge

No. of Lodge

407

Representatives

Frederick Graff, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Pa.11t Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Gustave Oertel, Past Master
William M. Pillsbury, Past Master
Rose's Bar ······------·No. 89.... Asa Pippin, Past Master & Representative.... 9.22
North Star ·······--·--···--No. 91.... Not Represented.
St. Helena ____,____No. 93....James H. McColley, Senior Warden.............. 5.36
Wilbur Blodgett, Junior Warden
John A. Mitchell, Past Master
Basil B. Rouse, Past Master
ohn H. Steves, Past Master
ohn Wichels, Past Master
Henry Oay ___ __No. 95....G. H. Swift ---'-----------····-·····-------······· 8.-M
John N. Owens, Junior Warden
D. E. Fickel, Past Master
Homitos -·····-··----·No, 98....James G. Glidden, Senior Warden----·-·-··· 22.80
Fred Steiner, Past Master
W. E. Lathrop, Past Master & Inspector...... 19.34
Yosemite---·-·-·····-----&. 99....Merl A. Blackman, Senior Warden.·------·· 19.34
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master................ 22.80
Clay __________ _:_________ _No. 101....H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
and Representative ........................................ 20.66
Oroville ___ _._ _____ _No, 103._.Stanley G. Salzman, Masttt--------·········-··· 12.22
Sewell K. Parker, Past Master
Lexington _________ No. 104... E. A. Hardenburgh, Master ···-···-------------- 47 56
· Harold W. Robertson, Senior Warden
Arcata -·-···-------_No. 106.... Marvin Krel, Senior Warden ------------ ·· 31.86
Pajaro _______ __._No, 110..:.Kelth E. Harlan, Senior Warden~-------····- 7.92
Andrew F. Edwards, Junior Warden
Chico -·-·······----··-··-··No. 111....Eric A. Tonningsen, Senior Warden .............. 21.60
Theodore Meriam, Past Master
Summit ···············-----·---'No· 112.... Not Represented.
Eden --···-·····-··-----~No. 113....Elwood D. Bona, Master
John B. Norton, Junior Warden
Siqney B. Force, Past Master and
Representative
Concord ----··-·- -No. 117....Chalmers E. West, Maater....------··········---· 3.62
Fred J. Wildanger, Senior Warden
Howard L. Kessler, Junior Warden
James M. Macdonald, Past Master...·-·-······· 7.24
Fidelity ------·--------_No. 120....Louis Blumenthal, Master
Bernie, J. Katz, Senior Warden
Merton A. Jacobs, Junior Warden
Philipp Jacobovics, Past Master
Abraham Jacobs, Past Master
Henry Levy, Past Master
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Milton D. Sapiro, Past Master
Cyril L. Weeks, Past Master

J

Alamo ----···----No. 122.---~cPi.~st~;h:~~s:~;·w;<l~~--------------- 3.oo
Edgar D. Charlton, Junior Warden
Charles G. Falsst, Past Master
Ralph M. Hinds, Past Master
J. B. Near, Past Master

408
Name of Lodsc

l

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodsc

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Sotoyome ·--···················No. 123....Walter A. Eagan, Senior Warden................ 5.34
Robert W. Weston, Past Master
Table Mountain .........•.•.. No. 124.... William F. George, P. M .. and
Representative ····················-·························· 23.30
LaFayette -··············--···No, 126....George D. Dowd, Senior Warden.................... 4.58
William C. Heatley, Past Master
·
Hermann ·······-··-·············No. 127....William A. Werner, Master
Reinhard M. Muhlmann, Senior Warden
John Behrens, Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
Emil A. Neumarkel, Past Master
Jacob Rauscher, Past Master
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
Visalia ···········-··-·············No. 128....John W. Manuell, Master ................................ 27.38
F. Ross Fleming, Senior Warden
James M. Lawson, Past Master & Inspector.. 27.38
Nicolaus ··-·-·····-··········No. 129....R. Gyce Clayton, Master .............................. 10.08
Stanley B. Hawthorne, Senior Warden
C. M. Burchell, Past Master
Woodbridge .................... No. 131....Ronald M. Lauchland, Master.......................... 7.50
Marion T. Williams, Senior Warden
Ray E. Mills, Junior Warden
W. Correll Smith, Past Master and Inspector 7.24
Sincerity ••.•......................No. 132....Not Represented.
Vacaville -···············-·····No. 134....George S. Bassford, Jr., Master._..................... 5.24
Lemoine E. Williams, Senior Warden
Austin T. Boblet, Junior Warden
George S. Bassford, Past Master
Valley ··-··························No. 135....James A. Drace, Senior Warden...................... 7.82
Clarence W. Mapes, Past Master
Pacific ····-····-·············-···No. 136.... Norman Barnett, Senior Warden
Maurice Levy, Junior Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Crockett ·····-·····-·--·······No. 139....Ballard White, Jr., Master
Frederick J. Mahr, Senior Warden
James Low, Past Master
W. H. Mason, Past Master
C. S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Bernard S. Pedersen, Past Master
John L. Stevens, Past Master
Curtis ·-·······--··-··---No. 140.... Floyd B. McGrath, Junior Warden................ 5.20
Grafton ···-·-······-··-······No. 141....Herbert A. Martin, Master.............................. 7.34
Franklin ···-·············-···--No. 143....Paul M. Mitchell, Master...............·-·-············· 8.10
Horace W. Williams, Junior Warden
Oriental -·················-·······No. 144....Claude E. Fountain, Master
Ian A. Russell, Senior Warden
Paul F. Balck, Junior Warden
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Edwin C. Hansen, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Vitruvlus ·······-···········-··No. 145....John G. Kelly, Master..••..·---·························· 2.60
Peter Christensen, Senior Warden
Abel ...................•............No. 146....E. H. Bal}'.iat, Senior Warden....................- .• 9.04
Elmer M. opper, P. M. & Inspector.............. 9.04

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodsc

No. of Lodge

Representatives

409
Mileage Allowed

Eel River .................•........No. 147....Bertram F. Morgan, Past Master
and Representative ···--································· 29.34
Lassen ........................•.••..No. 149....Leslie R. Vache, Master ...............•.................. 32.28
Elmer G. Van Tassell, Past Master
and Inspector ...................•............................ 32.28
Molino ············-·-···········-No. 150....Paul M. McDonald, Senior Warden......·-··· 23.24
Woodland ···········-·-······-No. 156....S. R. Fairlee, Master·······-······························· 6.96
James A. Fruit, Senior Warden
Marvin W. Greene, Junior Warden
George L. Stivers, Past Master and Inspector 6.96
Keystone ··-·······;..............No. 161....Howard J. Tower, Representative.................... 9.26
J. Fred Helms, Past Master
Harmony ················-·-·····No. 164...Ernest Innes, Master ........................................ 22.80
Excelsior ..........................No. 166....Fred B. Barnes, Master
George S. McGahey, Senior Warden
Charles A. Adams, Past Grand Master
Fred A. Zweifel, Past Master and Inspector
Bert T. Baker, Past Master
William B. Rixon, Past Master
Robert Taylor, Past Master
Alameda ..........................No. 167....Raymond H. Jolliff, Master..................·-······· 2.50
Fred Melhase, Senior Warden
Redwood Oty ··········-····No. 168...Lloyd C. Jenssen, Master................................ 2.00
Ralph H. Hallett, Senior Warden
Reidar H. Winther, Junior Warden
Lawrence A. Heiner, Past Master
Mission .............•..............No. 169....Ray W. Connelly, Master
Varnum Paul, Senior Warden
Melvin 0. Cooper, Junior Warden
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
George L. Edmondson, Past Master
J. C. Strickler, Past Master
Elk Grove -···-··-···-········No. 173.... Howard P. Wackman, Master........................ 8.74
Donald M. Connor, Senior Warden .
Thomas L. Conrad, Past Master
Carl G. Winter, Past Master
Drytown ·····················-···No. 174....Not Represented
Antioch ···-···-·-···'······--·No. 175....John K. Powers, Master
Renold Victor, Junior Warden................•.•...- 4.12
Phoenix .........................._No. 178....William J. Molnar, Master ............................ 52.24
Forrest H. Keck, Senior Warden
William E. Young, Sr., Past Master
Mendocino ·············-··-··No. 179....Henry J. Colburn, Senior Warden ................ 21.38
Petaluma ················-········No. 180.... Norman P. Van Bebber, Senior Warden........ 3.04
George W. Lee, Junior Warden
Park A. Van Bebber, Past Master
Stephen C. Olmsted, Past Master
Russian River ..........-....... No. 181....~~-PB [ope:~t ~~:::r ...............••................. 4.28

1

Carroll C. Doane, Past Master
Arbuckle ·······-······-·········No. 182....George L. Cotsenmoyer, Master .................... 9.26
Clear Lake ················-·-·No. 183....Clarence E. Corum, Junior Warden.....·-··-·· 5.30
Sierra Valley ·····-···········No. 184....Arthru M. Strang, Past Master and
Representative ·-··········································· 29.96
Claiborne ....................__ No. 185....Harold C. Hunter, Senior Warden....•.·-······· 18.50

410
Name of Lodse

J

No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileqe Allowed

Evening Star ----·-····-·No. 186....Not Represented
Keith ---···-········-··-···No. 187....Robert Buck, Junior Warden·-·--------············- 6.32
Oakland ···-·-···-··----·No. 188....Stuart Hedlund, Master
Rue W. Sims, Senior Warden
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Grand Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Jr., Past Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
George J. Norton, Past Master
Sidney F. Sea, Past Master
Northern Light .:.______No. 190.... Samuel G. Smith, Past Master-···········-----·- 26.16
Marin '--·-·-·-·--···No. 191....Walter Lindman, Master
Roy H. Bowman, Senior Warden
Joseph Horvath, Junior Warden
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
0. B. Cavanaugh, Past Master
Clinton T. Duffy, Senior Grand Deacon
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Warren H. Williams, Past Master
Ernest F. Zubler, Past Master
Santa Barbara ···-······-···No. 192....Dwight C. Fowler, Master·--·-····-·-··--··· 37.74
Albert B. Christiansen, Senior Warden
Eliot F. Haberlitz, Junior Warden
Alfred W. Kincaid, Past Master
John MacKellar, Past Master
Ferndale ····-··----·-..No. 193....0ral A. Bartlett, Master--·-·-······-·--········ 29.74
Mountain View --·-··-··No. 194....Edward F. Blalock, Muter.·--··-··-·······-··-- 3.50
James H. Thomas, Senior Warden
Geo. Eade, Junior Warden
Mervin C. Barry, Past Master
Walter L. Ericksen, Past Master
Buckeye ···-······· - · - ··No. 195....Jos. D. Griffin, Master···-····---·····----·--·--·· 6.32
M. H. Sharp, Senior Warden
San Simeon ··---·-----No. 196.._Samuel Borradorl, Master--····----·-·-·---· 28.08
Wilmington ---------··-'No. 198....Kenneth E. Reicheld, Senior Warden -····-··· 47.56
·
Wm. Munce, Junior Warden
Don C. Fohl, Past Master
Tom Mason, Past Master
Hartley ·-·········-·--·----No. 199....Victor C. Ledbetter, Senior Warden.._____ 6.40
Guido de Ghetaldl, Past Master & Inspector_ 6.40
Truckee ----·----No. 200....Not Represented
Silveyville ······-··-·--··.No. 201....J. W. Tutt, Master ··-·····---·····-··--·-·-··-··· 5.52
Oliver C. Dunn, Senior Warden
Herbert E. Pearson, Junior Warden
Eggert Rohwer, Past Master ·-········--··- 552
H. R. Willard Bulkley, Past Master
Pentalpha ·----·-····--·:..No. 202._.Rayman N. Miller, Master ·-·-·--·····-·····-······ 47.56
Howard H. Arnold, Senior Warden
John M. Gordon, Grand PursuJvant.......- ....... 47.56
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master --···-- 47.56
William Rhodes Hervey, Past Grand Master 47.56
William R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master.......·-···· 47.56
Clarence W. Hull, Past Master
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
Confidence ···-·············-No. 203....Walter C. Buttle, Past Master and
Representative ·-···-----···-··············-·············-- 8.74
Fong Q . Jing, Sr., Past Master

I

Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Representatives

411
Milet&e Allowed

Salinas ·········----------No. 204....Percy Cracknell, Master......·-···········-···--·-···· 9.26
Stanley L. Burchell, Senior Warden
Olivet ·-·······-····-·-·-··-No, 205....Not Represented
Stanislaus ---·-····-···-··--·No• 206....Fayne E. Rinehart, Senior Warden................ 8.32
Anaheim ·······-····-·····--···No. 207....Randall W. Brownell, Master- --·---- ················ 4756
Harry P. Bradley, Senior Warden
Rio Vista ····----~--.No. 208.._Harry E. Martin, Master ························-······ 7.24
C. Earl Stewart. Past Master and Inspector.. 7.24
Torrance G. King, Past Master
John W. McCormick, Past Master
King David's .............:.._No. 209....Morse R. Butler. Master---·····--··············-··· 28.08
Caspter J. Weir, Jr., Senior Warden
Friendship ···-··-·-- - -No. 210....Lawrence A. Campbell, Master············----· 3.92
Orion R. Burnett, Senior Warden
Wm. P. Truran, Junior Warden
Henry G. Clouser, Past Master
John F. Knight, Past Master
Darrell J. Sedgwick, Past Master
San Benito ···--········-····No. 211-William J. Watt, Master -·····-··············-··-····· 6.10
Charles Saufnauer, Senior Warden
Wayne. W. Matthews. Junior Warden
Albert W . Hinz. Past Master
Heman A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Franclsco......No. 212.... Alexander K. Chalmers, Master
Roger Fernandez, Junior Warden
Henry T. Conserva. Past Master
Cyrus H. Kramer, Past Master
George A. Lastein, Past Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Past Master
San Buenaventura ..........No. 214....H. Geor11e Lepper, Master.·-········-··········-··- 39.98
Norman Deardorf, Junior Warden
Oak Grove ······-······-····No. 215....C . A. Penberthy, Master
P.H. Baxter. Senior Warden
G. 0. Richards, Junior Warden
William Nankervls, Jr.. Past Master
and Inspector
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
Doric ·-·---·-····-·····--·.No. 216....Harold S. Silberstein, Master
Allan H. Fish, Senior Warden
Edward Ted Goldman. Junior Warden
Monterey ·······-·-···--No. 217....James Richard Brady, Senior Warden............ 9.94
C. Haskell Warren, Past Master
Mosaic --···········-··-··--No. 218....Not Represented
Speranza Italiana ···-··-···No. 219....Ehn Magrinl, Master
ohn M. Icardo, Inspector & Past Master
tonio Caghandro. Past Master
Downey -···········-·--···-No. 220....Frands C. Huddle, Maltier---·····•-·······---·-··· 47.56
A. Lee Gauldin, Senior Warden
_Inyo ···---·············-__No.. 221..:.Herman H. Budke, Senior Warden..·-·-··-··· 55.16
Roseville -··········-·-······-No. 222....Taylor M. Collins, Master ···--··················-··· 8.74
Lucas Schaffer, Inspector & Past Master.._._ 8.74
Bakersfield ·--···--······--·No. 224.... Michael S. Oldershaw, Master···-············-- 32.48
Leonard C. Smith, Senior Warden
Fred E. Baldes, Junior Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master..._........• 32.48
Albert E. Burton, Past Master

412

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodge

Name of Lodge

413

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Mileage Allowed

Orville L. Coburn, P. M. & Inspector....•....... 32.48
Henry Eissler, Past Master
Henry C. Mack, Past Master
Brooklyn ·················-··-···No. 225....Roy F. Anderson, Master
Allan W. Tompkins, Senior Warden
Ian A. Bremner, Junior Warden
Louis Sutter, Past Master
Roy H. Lenthall, Past Master & Inspector
San Mateo ...................... No. 226.... Harry H. Pue, Master
Alan S. Ryall, Past Master
Wesley P. Jones, Junior Warden
Athens ··-···········-······-·····No. 228.... David M. Berry, Senior Warden.................... 5.10
Solano •....••.......................No. 229....
~~eY. eS~~io~W~:d~~-···················-······ 2.70

ts:Pl':

Gene A. Heinzman, Junior Warden
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Walter J. McClure, Past Master
Warren A. Peterson, Past Master
North Butte ···-··········-···No. 230.... Edward D. Price, Senior Warden ................ 11.50
Covelo ··············--············No, 231....John L. Allen, Senior Warden.....·-················ 19.98
Janesville ···-·-···········-··No. 232....LeRoy Bailey, Master ...................................... 33.54
Ralph M. King, Past Master
Calistoga ············-····----NO. 233....Conrad Weil, Jr., Junior Warden ···········-··· 6.04
Hope ···········-·········-·······No. 234.... Raymond A. Scolari, P. M. and
Representative .............................................. 29.96
Surprise Valley ..........•.•.No. 235 .... Not Represented
Hills Ferry ··-·················No. 236.... C. E. Clifton, Senior Warden.......................... 8.86
William S. Thompson, P. M. and Inspector.. 8.86
Guadalupe ···········--·--..No. 237... .Imon HessenHow, Master ···························-·- 30.56
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colusa ••............................No. 240.... D. W. Spurgeon, Junior Warden................',.88
E . L. Hicok, Past Master & Inspector.........-... 10.88
Santa Ana ···-················:No. 24 L ..Eugene E. Spessard, Master .......................... 48.78
Burrell A. Wilson, Senior Warden
Augustus H. Allen, P. M. and Inspector........ 49.82
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Magnolia ···-··············-·-No. 242....Tohn H. Fickle, Senior Warden ...................... 37.74
Ralph B. McNall, Junior Warden
Ralph C. Hine, P. M. and Inspector................ 37.74
Eucalyptus ·-···-·············No. 243.... Fred H. Horwood, Master
Howard L. Burr, Senior Warden
George I. Orth, Junior Warden
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
Harry A. Bradford, Past Master f:J Inspector
Walter F. Flierl, Past Master
Richard W. Paige, Past Master
E. Gaylord Quinn, Past Master
Alcatraz --·--··:··-···No. 244.... Lowell K. Bain, Master
Ernest Bartolomie, Junior Warden
· Avis A. Campbell, Past Master
Edwin A. Clothier, Past Master
Laurel ·····-·····--··-·-·····No. 245.... H. H. Ossenbriiggen, Past Master and
Representative ................................................ 20.28

.

Pomona •...........••.•............No. 246....Richard M. Ludden, Master ............................ 50.38
Gordon R. Steiner, Senior Warden
William S. Southworth, Junior Warden
Jerome A. Ludden, Past Master
Fresno ···············-·············No. 247.... Ralph W. Kuettel, Master ··-·························· 23.76
Earle M. Jones, Senior Warden
Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master........ 23.76
Daniel B. Hurlbut, Past Master
Harry F. White, Past Master
Alturas ········-··-·--··--No, 248.... Not Represented
Adin ···········----····--No, 250.... E. K. Brown, Master ........................................ 40.32
Jack C. Andersen, Senior Warden
Landmark ···-··········-···-··No. 253.... Chester D. Parker, Senior Warden.·-············ 7.76
Reading ..............•.......•.....No. 254.... Richard L. Corbin, Master .............................• 26.98
George B. Burke, Junior Warden
Albert F. Ross, Past Master···········-··············· 26.98
Welcome ··-···-··-···········-No. 255....John R. Dawdy, Senior Warden..·-········-·····- 27.26
Lodi ·····················-······-··No. 256....J. Lyall Martin, Senior Warden...................... 7.24
Arthur E. Blewett, Junior Warden
Edmund W. Durston, Past Master
T. Glenn Wright, Past Master
Penrhyn ·-··················-···No. 258 .... Not Represented
Evergreen ········--------No. 259....J. Lee Johnson, Master·······-··-························· 52.24
Ralph A. Baker, Senior Warden
John E. Dole, Secretary_
James H. Jordan, Past Master
0. K. Morton, Past Master ............................ 52.24
Willard G. Babcock, Past Master
and Inspector ·············-··········-······-············· 52.24
King Solomon's -··-·--·No. 260.... Henry E. Bennett, Sr.• Master
Norman H. Stone, Senior Warden
Gerald E. Cook, Junior Warden
Louis C. J. Clod!, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean, Jr., Past Master
Ulysses G. Patropulos, Past Master
Tuscan ··················-··-··-No. 261....John H. Foysythe, Past Master and
Representative ···················-··-··-·················· 10.18
Lompoc -······-·········-····-No· 262.... Kenneth L. Adam, Senior Warden................... 33.02
Hesperian ·················-·····No. 264....Walter Andrew Word, Senior Warden......... 30.56
Floyd H. Watson, Past Master f:J Inspector.. 30.56
Orland .................•.....•...•..No. 265....Robert W. Bailey, Jr., Senior Warden-•......... 21.46
Herman Thode, Past Master and Inspector.... 21.46
North East ···--·····-·--No. 266.... Not Represented
Galt ·---·---··--··········No. 267..•.J. G. Dahlstrom, Junior Warden..·-······--······· 7.24
Durant ..............................No. 268....George Thomson, Master
Carlton E. DeWitte, Senior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P. M. and Inspector
B. J. Rose, Past Master
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
Kruger W. Wilkie, Past Master
Olive Branch ····-····-·····No. 269....Ralph C. Swenson, Senior Warden·······-······· 27.38
Harvey T. Lauritzen, Junior Warden
A. B. Ledbetter, Past Master ·······-··············· 27.38
W. J. Williams, Past Master

414
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

415

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mil~ Allowed

Snow Mountain ·······--·No. 271....Thomas E. Haskell, Representative ············- 10..34
Pasadena ...•....;. ________ .No. 272....James E. Shoemaker, Master .......................... 48.60
J. Thomas Holland, Senior Warden
Anchor --···········-···--No. 273....George Q. Evans, Master···········-··················· 47.56
William J. Amann, Senior Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, Past Master & Inspector.... 47.56
Theo. Newtson, Past Master
Arroyo -··--····::--···-·····No. 274....Clarence Truesdale, Master ·············-············· 28.88
Harry A. Truesdale, Past Master
Oakdale --··-············--No. 275.... Melvin M. Clark, Senior Warden ···········-··· 9.38
Raymond G. Hawkins, Junior Warden
Selma -·-·-···-··-·····.....No. 277....Aaron Butts, Master ·······-·-·-···-··················· 25.10
·
Melvin Lowry, Senior Warden
Walter B. Glenn, Past Master
Southern California ····-··No• 278 .... Harold V. Spender, Master-·························· 47.56
Francis B. Galvery, Senior Warden
Leslie D. Magor, junior Warden
John M. Askin, Past Master
Donald W. Bloeser, Past Master
Edward C. Gadden, Past Master
Charles T. Medler, Past Master
George R. Tanner, Past Master
}fanford -··············--···-No. 279.... William T. Bernstein, Master ........................ 26.58
Robert L. McCrady, Senior Warden
William H. Baxter, Past Master & lnsP.ector 27.76
Madera -·--·····-··-··-···No. 280....Walter W. Williams, Master···-·····-·········-··· 22.30
Roy J. McLeod, Senior Warden
Mt. Shasta -··-·-···-·--··No. 281.._John Pelnar, Junior Warden···-··········-··-·-··· 26.04
Callayomi ··-·····--··No. 282.... Kenneth V. Palmer, Junior Warden···-········· 5.00
South West ····-·······-·& 283.... Harold LeRoy Froyck, Senior Warden........ 50.84
Roy C. Simpson, Junior Warden
San Miguel ··-····-······-···No. 285.... Martin Heynen, Representative ···--····-·······- 24.44
Charles Forbes, Grand Bible Bearer ·--········· 28.08
Orin Compton, Past Master & Inspector......- 28.08
Paso Robles ··-··-··---No. 286.... Paul L. Turner, Senior Warden--···-··········· 25.24
Winnedumah ·····---···'---No. 287.... Gleason H. Coen, Senior Warden....·-········· 55.16
Maxwell --·-·····----·-No. 288....Milton E. Roscoe, Senior Warden .................. 10.88
Elsinore _ _ _ _ _ __No, 289....R. W. Goodwin, Past Master &
Representative -----··-····························- 53.04
East Gate ______ __No. 290....Emest R. Mosley, Master-·-········-··············-- 47.56
Emlyn William Reese• Senior Warden
Fred E. Mogle, Acting Junior Warden
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master...........·-···· 47.56
William W. Porteous, Past Master
Santa Paula -·--··--.No. 291....Gustaf A. B. Quick, P. M. and Inspector...._ 41.34
Los Gatos -·--····-··-·······No. 292.... Ralph M. ·Phillips, Master ·······-·-················· 4.B2
Frank E. Jameson, Senior Warden
Paul L. Crider, Junior Warden
Fred Berryman, P. M.
Orange Grove ............•~.No. 293._.George W. Horton, Master --························ 49.82
Jay W. Cummings, Senior Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master
Traver ·····-----...No. 294.... Harry R. Hicks, Representative ...................• 25.50
Mt. Jackson -··--·····-····No, 295.... Josepb L. Kerr, Master ···-···········--······--·······- 5.00

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Silver Gate ·······-····-·--·No. 296.... Marvln E. Musgrave, Senior Warden............ 50.84
Willard A. Braasch, Junior Warden

~~dd J~a::k~~~'.!.~~~---····················-

50.84
Frederick S. Weed, P. M. and Inspector......- 50.84
Dunsmuir ···············--NO. 297 ....William R. Petty, Senior Warden..·-······---- 31.54
Liberty ···-······-·····--··.No. 299....George M. Clark, Master ···-··························· 3.64
Borden M. Melton, Senior Warden
Redlands ·-···--·····----No. 300....William H. McGaughy, Master·······-············· 52.92
Alfred F. Jury, Senior Warden
Ontario --···-···-····.:.·"····-No. 301....Loren H. Robinson, Master ·······-···-···-······· 50.78
A. Clarence Goodwin, Senior Warden
Albert F. Holmer, Junior Warden
Robert E. Harris, Past Master
Santa Lucia --···--·No. 302....Emil Feldt, Senior Warden ............................ 10.60
Porterville ···············-··--No. 303....Ervin H. Gibson, Master ···········--·-····-······· 29.24
Hayden W. Benton, Senior Warden
Obed W. Carr, Assistant Grand Lecturer...._ 27.88
Reedley -···-·······-·-·······No. 304....Clyde C. Curnutt, Representative ·············-·· 25.60
Azusa ···-·-·---········--·No• 305.... lra R. Calvert, Master -----.:....·-···········-··· 49.58
E. C. Malone, Senior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................ 49.58
Ashlar ··---···-··-···--···No• 306....Cbarles H. Purkiss, Master ···-··········-······-···· 52.24
Leslie H. Riggins, Senior Warden
Melvin Saunders, Past Master
Robert W. Nicol, Past Master & Inspector.... 52.24
Santa Monica •...............No. 307....Edwin J. Hook, Master·······-·-·····················- 47.56
Joe A. Taylor, Senior Warden
Monrovia --·······-·----No. 308 ....Wallace D. MacPherson, Master .................. 47.56
Kalter C. Gerfen, Past Master
Delano ····-·-···········'--No. 309.-Byron E. Howard, Master ---····················-··· 29.94
Marlon C. Sloan, Senior Warden
Sisson -·--·················-··.NP+ 310....Mervln 0. Adams, Senior Warden... ~•-········ 32.68
James J. Love, Junior Warden
Los Banos -·-······-·····--No. 312....Murray A. Beeney, Master···········--··-····- 7.48
Tehachapi ---··············:.-No. 313.... W. Clyde Brite, Senior Warden·-················· 36.38
Eufene A. Ledyard, Junior Warden
.
H •. Beauford, Past Master
L. . Jenkins, Past Master
G. Koutroulis, Past Master
Temescal -················---.....No. 3H....John E • .Kirkpatrick, Master··--·········-······-·· 52.42
Lawrence C. McNutt, Senior Warden
Homer H. Holton, Past Master
Norwalk -·-···············-~ 315....Carl T. Allen, Senior Warden...____________ 47.56
J. W. Plains, Junior Warden
Sanger --·-·····-···'··-No. 316....Ralph H. Frane, Senior Warden............•·-··· 24.96
Fall Brook -·······-·······--No· 317....George E . .Kingston, Past Master
and Representative ·-··-·-·--····················· 55.20
Emmanuel ....................-No. 318....Warren E. Bain, Past Master
·
and Representative··-·····-·-·····-···--- 12.66
Hollenbeck -···············__No. 319 .... Basil U. Royster, Master ······-···----·············· 47.56
Chester M. Gjerde, Senior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, Past Master and Inspector•.•. _ 47.56

416
Name of Lodse

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

:Representatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
· Mileage Al!owrd

Huron Y. Gibson, Past Master
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
South Gate ··················-··No. 320....Clyde A. Winslow, Master ............................ 47.56
Mark A. Green, Senior Warden
Clark F. Andrews, Past Master
Roy H. Longshore, Past Master
Alisal ...................- ...........No. 321....Victor B. Johnson, Master .............................. 3.36
Alhambra .................- ..No. 322....James I. Condie, Master ..._ ............................ 47.56
Otto N. Rugen, Senior Warden
Clare B. Whitney, Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Whittler ................_._...No. 323....Robert E. Ross, Master .................................... 47.56
Paul 0. Miller, Senior Warden
John E. Chapin, Past Master and Inspector.. 48.78
Corona ______...._ ..No. 324....lrwin G. Beadle, Master .......- -........:............ 48.60
Walton Talley, Senior Warden
Gordon F. Porter, Past Master ...................... 47.56
Edward H. Rowins, Past Master
Consuello ..-·-·---..-·-··No. 325....James McElhaney, Senior Warden ................ 52.04
Needles ,_..........:.._...........No. 326....Thomas C. Wood, Senior Warden ................ 52.38
Guy W. Austin, Past Master
Carl C. Mikesell, Past Master and Inspector 52.38
Long Beach ........._...........No. 327....John H. Ferguson, Master ................................ 47.56
lioward C. LeManquais, Senior Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master and Inspector.. 47.56
Redondo .......- ......... _......No. 328....John R. Ward, Past Master ........_......._..______ 47.56
Leon G. Kelly, Senior Warden
Earle J. Edwards, Past Master
Vallee de Prance.-.........No. 329.... Edouard L. Piggoni, Master_.............--........ 47.56
Rene J. Guerrini, Senior Warden
Charles A. Thomasset, P. M. and Inspector.. 47.56
Kilauea ......._.___,:..___..No, 330...Elle Marlo Amiel, Senior Warden..................362.40
Charles A. Shepherd, Past Master
PacUlc Grove .......__.......No. 331....Lawrence H. Lyon, Master .............................. 10.08
·
Carl 0. Patnude, Junior Warden
Arch Balchin, P. M. and Inspector.................. 10.08
Frederick T. Cope, Past Master
George H. Schuyler, Past Master
San Pedro ........--....:.......No. 332....Harold E. Dahlberg, Master .......- ..- ....- ....... 47.56
Harry F. Carlstrom, Senior Warden
John Ramsey, Past Master and Inspector...... 47.56
Alta ---....-·-···-·---No. 333_..Willlam A. Patterson, Master _.....- .....- ....·-· 44.10
William L. Davis, Past Master and Inspector 55.16
Covina . -..--........- .......No. 334....Henry H. Rossner, Senior Warden................ 49.58
Wm. C. Goodman, Junior Warden
,
West Gate ..........._ ......No. 335.... Sanford Grine], Senior Warden ...................... 47.56
Fruitvale ........- ...........No. 336.... Paul A. Brom, Master
Walter B. Hart, Senior Warden
Theodore P. Bean, Junior Warden
Prank R. Killinger, Jr., Past Master 5 Inspector
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Leland B. Moore, Past Master
Pritz Schuler, Past Master
Harold 0. Sjoberg, Past Master

Name ol Lodae

No. of Lodse

R.epresencativa

417
Mileage Allowed

CarquJnez -----..---No. 337....Willlam S. Qark, Senior·Warden
2.42
William S. Brunning, Past Master
Thomas H. Cotton, Past Master
San Jacinto -------No. 338.... George A. Brown, Senior Warden_.._..____ 56.94
Edward 0. Cooper, Past Master
Fullerton--··
,_No, 339....J. 0. Rayne, Master------·--·-- 49.46
l>. H. Lippiatt, Senior Warden
W. T. Rodger, P. M. and Inspector_..__,,.. 49.46
Oxnard ......."-·····-..·-·-·No. 341....Donald R Ellis, Master ··---..- ....- ............ 40.78
Ernest 0. Allison, Junior Warden
Reginald R. Newman, Past Master

San Fernando ....._, ___No. 343_..J, Edson La_cy, Master --·----·-----..·--· 43.84
Richard E. Montgomery, Senior Warden
C. L. Chriatensen, Past Master
Starr King ______No. 344...,AI H. Barkoff, Master
•
Michael V. lgnotz, Senior Warden
Ben A. Katz, Junior Warden
Halman L. Wayne, Past Master and Inspector
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Master
Milton E. Zimmerman, Past Master
Brentwood ·-·-.............No. 345....Prank H. Vonder Ahe, Master ......- ............... 5.06
W. Ray Turner, Senior Warden
A. A. Sales, Past Master
Palo Alto - · - -..--No. 346....Adam B. Morten. Master _ ........_____....... 3.28
Johnny K. Douglas, Senior Warden
Willis A. Roller, Junior Warden
Robt. N. Walker, P. M. and Inspector....___ 3.28
L. Harold Anderson, Past Master
Newton W. Glaeser, Past Master
Leonard R. Avilla, Past Master
Howard C. Miller, Past Master
McKinley ..,__........- .....No. 347....~hn R. Garside, Master
oseph S. Alameda, Senior Warden
enneth H. McCutcheon, Junior Warden
San Bernardino .,_ _No. 348....Charles B. Mackey, Master - - - - - - - 52.24
James M. Purdy, Senior Warden
John D. Williams, Past Master
Ralph· H. Logsdon. Past Master
and Inspector - - - - - -....- ............_ 52.24
Sequoia
..-No. 349....E. H. Phillips, Master
James L. Bos, Senior Warden
Ernest A. Allen,' Junior Warden
Earl Warren, Past Grand Master--........ 7.24
Henry S. Savage, Jr.. P. M. and Inspector
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Rolla L. Eubanks, P. M. and Inspector
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
John R. MacGregor, Past Master
Cyril W. McQean, Past Master
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Palestine _______No, 351.-Wallace C. Oark, Master -- - - · - - - - - - 4756
Leslie W. Young, Senior Wanlen
Verne J. Dapper, Past Muter

418
Name of Lodge

1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

llcprescncr.civcs

Mileage Allowed

Will H. Light, Past Master
Thoir.as J. McDonald, Past Master
Magnus Nielsen, Past Master
Sunset ··························~-No. 352....Nathaniel J. Woodman, Senior Warden..·-··· 47.56
Stanley_ F. Mcinnes, Junior Warden
Rollie W. Miller, Past Grand Master..·-····-·- 47.56
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Lolyd C. Campbell, Past Master .................... 47.56
George E. Delavan, Jr., Past Master
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
Pinole ··········-····-··-··-·····-No. 353....Samuel Neely, Master ······-···························· 2.00
George Dickerson, Senior Warden
Clayborne Gillette, Junior Warden
George Pfieffer, Past Master
Presidio ···-··················__No. 354....0scar R. Gruter, Master
Alexander L. Croce, Junior Warden
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master and Inspector
Joseph M. Ruggiero, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ······--·········---No· 355....Samuel Steelman, Master ................................ 47.56
Edward P. Kysar, Senior Warden
Earl W. Bolter, Junior Warden
William B. Ogden, Past Grand Master.......... 47.56
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
·
L. E. Anderson, Past Master & Inspector...... 47.56
John T. Bond, Past Master
Walter F. Burbank. Past Master
John M. Hayden, Past Master
S. A. MacDonald, Past Master
Mill Valley •.......:........_No. 356.... Forrest T. C. Gist, Master
·
Alfred M. Arenz, Senior Warden
Frederick A. Penn, Inspector and P. M.
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park ................._...No. 357....Fred Winters, Master -······-·-·······················-· 4i.56
Leo Dix, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems, Grand Sword Bearer.......__.. 47.56
Golden State ···········-··-··No. 358.... D. Edwin Carmichael, Master·'-·---··············· 47.56
Maurice G. Henn, Senior Warden
Arthur B. Dittman, Past Master
Edgar W. Otto, Past Master
Loyalton ···-··-···-·······-·No. 359-..Joseph 0. Goss, Junior Warden ··················- 31.ot
J. S. Conklin, Inspector & P. M. --··············· 31.ot
San Francisco ............-.No. 360....Walter A. Parker, Master
Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Senior Warden
Melvin A. Earley, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary
Henry L. Alves, Past Master
Earle Freeman, Past Master
Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Ross K. Roper, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master
Alfred J. Thibodeau, Past Master
Fort Bragg ···-·-·---~---·No. 361....Edward Melville, Master ····-·························- 18.50
Harry Burrows, Inspector & P. M ................. 18.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of Lod8c

No. of Lodge

Reprcscn~civcs

419
Mileage Allowed

Charity ........... ~...............:NG. 362....Dean Chamberlin, Master ······-···········-··········- 4.42
Lawrence Hendricks, Senior Warden
A. C. Currie, Past Master
Berkeley .....................:-~No. 363....Earl M: Pierce, Senior Warden
W. E. LeQuatte, Junior Warden
Charles A. McKefvey, Past Master
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Robert P. Arnold, Past Master
365....Edwin Allen, Past Master and
Willits ..............................
Representative ··········-···········-······················· 12.60
Las Palmas ......................No. 366....James A. Hopper, Senior Warden .................. 23.76
R. G. Meyering, Past Master
T. D. Moyers, Past Master
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
South Pasadena •.............No. 367.... Clifford P. Grua, Master········-······················· 47.56
Roy D. Kohl, Senior Warden
Garrett F. Van Sickle, Past Master
Patrick J. Thompsett, Past Master
John W. Shenk; Past" Master
Unity ..................:.....•......
368....Mark H. Bloodgood, Master ............................ 47.56
Walter H. Righter, Senior Warden
·
Guy B. Mize, Past Master and Inspector...... 47.56
Kenneth W. Wilde, Past Master
Ocean Park ..................-No. 369....James A. Africa, Master ···········---·····-············· 47.56
William W. Benbow, Senior Warden
D. C. Freeman, Past Master and Inspector.... 47.56
Harold H. Kinney, Past Master
Amity -······················-No. 370....Thomas J. McHenry, Master
Robert J. Bogle, Senior Warden
Norman C. Blecher, Junior Warden
Paul A. Pftueger, Assistant Grand Treasurer
Henry 0. Hammerich, Past Master
Rudolph F. Lange, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Progres de l'Oceanle......No. 371....G. Warren Clark, Master -···························.331.20
Henry Fulton, Past Master
Alexander D. Potts, Past Master
and Inspector ----··--·-······-·············-··..33J.20
Gardena ..........................No, 372....Frank E. Cree, Senior Warden ...................... 47.56
0. C. Rapier, Jr., Junior Warden
William W. Pitman, Past Master
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master .....:............ 47.56
West Los Angeles..........No. 373....Bates W. Mason, Master-··-·-·······--···········-- 47.56
Dwight Robert Watts, Senior Warden
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master
Jewel ··-·························--No. 374....Emile Meyer, Master
Ernest H. Holt, Senior Warden
Solon C. Leonhaeuser, Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson, Grand Organist
John H. Adams, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Fred D. Pierce, Past Master
Jesse P. Rundell, Past Master
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master

No.

:No.

420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name of Locl&e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

421

Mileqe Allowed

Richmond ·-···-····-·-···No. 375.... Marshall A Goodmanson, Senior Warden
Ellsworth R. Eidenmuller, Junior Warden
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
J. H. Conner, Past Master
Wllliam C. Johnson. Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
Geo. H. Pope, Past Master
Francis Drake ······-····--No. 376....Everett W. Fortlne, Master
John J. McDonald. Past Master
Artesia -.-··-··-········-No. 377....Darrell D. Pearson, Master ............................ 47.56
Frank H. McClung, Senior Warden
Mizpah --·········-·····-No. 378.... Hubert S. Stormes, Master-·-····-·····-·········· 47.56
Hersha! J. Lay, Senior Warden
Joseph Fi Treharne, Junior Warden
Fillmore ---··-····-·-·No. 379•...Walter A Stewart, Master---···-·--··-·- 42.14
Thomas A. Powell, Senior Warden
L. G. Fansler, Jr., Junior Warden
L. C. Harmonson, Past Master
Lester A. Price, Past Master
Hunt Beach ·······---·--No. 380.... Maurice Plumlee, Master ········--················- 47.56
James R. Thompson. Senior Warden
Oceanside --·-·-···--·-·No· 381....Charles C. Inskeep, Senior Warden-·--······· 54.40
George A Otis, Past Master f:J Inspector...... 54.40
Highland Park - .............No. 382..- William R. Drake, Master ---···---·---- 47.56
Oscar A. Bredy, Senior Warden
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Orosi --·-·:··-········No. ....383.... Harry N. Shiffler, Senior Warden··-··········- 26.74
Arthur P. Beckner, Past Master
Henry R. Wilson, Past Master
El Centro ----·-·-·No. 384....Ralph J. Lydecker, Senior Wuden...._____ 67.94
John Stewart Ross, Past Grand Master.._._ i7.56
Charles H. Knights, Past Master
and Inspector ··----···-······--···············-- 67.94
Edwin N. D. Hatch, Past Master
Lodah P. Alexander, Past Master
Dinuba --·--·--·-No. 385..-Guy L. Munson, Senior Warden··-······-··-- 26.14
Oarence L. Fraser, Past Master
and Inspector ···-···--···-···--··--·····-············ 26.14
Coalinga ···-····-·--No. 387....Evan P. Taylor, Senior Warden..---·-·-- 28.20
Wilfrid H. Boyce, Past Master
. William H. Halford, Past Master
Parnassus ______ _No. 388._.James E. Finley, Master
liomer D. Robertson. Junior Warden
Palos Verdes ___.:.__No. 389.._William F. Short, Master.·-----··--··· 47.56
Howard M. Williamson, Senior Warden
Imperial---··
No. 390.-Charles F. Maynard, Senior Warden·---·- 70.72
East Belt --··-··---No. 391..-Wallace H. Fiske, Master--·--··-··-·- 11.88
West Lake ----~O. 392.... Harold J. Blalne, Master····-------·- 47.56
Charles W. Jackson, Senior Warden
John W. Chaney, Junior Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master--····--··--··· 47.56
Francis M. Brock, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Stanley Cowin, Past Master
Clyde E. Hopkins, Past Master
Charles E. Listenwalter, Past Master

Name of Locl&e

No. of Locl&e

Representatives

Milease Allowed

Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master
William T. Osterholt, Past Master
Robert C. Peyton, Past Master
Balder --··-···--··---No. 393.... L. Arthur Van Etten, Master
Harry R. Peterson, Senior Warden
Oswald Christensen, Junior Warden
Alfred Berglof, Past Master
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Past Master
Victor C. 0. Peterson, Past Master
Fred A Schuler, Past Master
University ·-···········----No. 394.... Elmer L. Cannon, Master·········-·············-······ 47.56
Jasper H. Hutchinson, Senior Warden
William T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master
Myron E. Smith, Past Master
Turlock ·······-·······-·-No. 395....Reinhold Schmidt, Master ·······-······················· 9.38
George D. Upton, Senior Warden
Harry 0. Carlson, Past Master f:J lqspector.. 9.38
Apollo ···-···---·--···No. 396....John A. Burns, Master
Laurel K. Barnard, Senior Warden
Frederick E. Champion, Junior Warden
Truman A. Miller, Past Master
Clifford H. Noyes, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
Rising Light -·-·-·-···-···No. 397.... Thomas D. Brown, Master ···········-··········-····· 47.~6
Claud D. Black, Junior Warden
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Fraternity ·······-·-··-·-···No. 399•...Charles C. Jones, Master ·-······················-····· 3.92
Clarence F. Weinzerl, Senior Warden
Ray W. Mcintyre, Past Master and Inspector 3.92
Burlingame -·-·--············No. 400....Russell M. Johnston, Master
Wayne L. Williamson, Senior Warden
Kenneth R. Ford, Junior Warden
Samuel L. Hawken, Past Master
and Inspector
John W. CawkweD, Past Master
William Wilkin, Past Master
Bay View -··-···············No. 401.... Edwin M. Wetmore, Master
Joseph Peter Rom, Junior Warden
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Arthur H. Triggs, Past Master
Brawley ·----······----··--No. 402....Emest W. Winfree, Master -·--·-···-··············· M.32
Jean H. Park, Senior Warden
Verba Buena -·-·-·-····-·No• 403.... Anthony J. Magnesi, Master
Carroll A Trefts, Past Master
Glendora -·-··-··---·····-·No. 404....Wllliam D. Shores, Master·-····-····················· 49.82
G. B. Gordon. Jr., Senior Warden
Moneta ·--···---·--···No• .f05....Theodore T. Meehlels, Master··············--·-- 47.56
Reeves W. Baughn, Senior Warden
William H. Bogart, Jllilior Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, Past Master
and Inspector ··--·-····-----······················· 47.56
Burbank ····-···---····No. 406....Charles R. Mym, Master -·-·--·-··---- 47.56
Howard J. Curtis, Senior Warden

422
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Milease Allowed

LaMesa -·····················-···No. 407....W. Fred Rector, Master--·······-············-······· 50.84
H, Leroy Edwards, Senior Warden
Joseph J. Quest, Junior Warden
Sierra Madre ..................No. 408....Harold F. Roberts. Master .............................. 47.56
Clair B. Cline, Senior Warden
John W. Adams, Junior Warden
Honolulu ···········-·········---No. 409....Alvin E. Melim, Master _______;_·······-···········331.20
Charter Rock ·········-------No. 410....Webster W. Wilcox, Jr.
Norman A. Hollister, Senior Warden
Delmar G. Bailard, Junior Warden
Max A. Plumb, Senior Grand Steward
James K. Fisk. Past Master
Albert M. Poulsen, Past Master
Charles W. Stannard, Past Master
William D. Wisdom, Past Master
Perris ······-················-~---No. 411 ....Ralph E. Holloway, Past Master
and Representative ·········-·-··-····················- 56.44
Calexico -···-··:···········---No. 412....Robert C. Reed, Master ·-·····························-·· 66.06
Robert R. Simmons, Senjor Warden
Arlington ···-····---···----No. 414....Roy S. Campbell, Jr.• Senior Warden............ 47.56
Carl F. Peters, Past Master & Inspector........ 47.56
Silver Trowel ....,........--No. 415....JOhn V. Tranchitella, Master ···-····················· 47.56
l<enneth E . Robison, Senior Warden
Frederick J. C. Martin, Past Master
~indsay ············--············No. 416....Charles H. Kinsel, Master .............................. 28.44
Carl J. Kroells, Senior Warden
Carl M. Danielson, Junior Warden
Clovis ···············-········-···No. 417._.John Rahl, Junior Warden ···········-················· 24.96
Elysian ···-·-··············---No. 418....Frederick W. Orgar, Master .......................... 47.56
Roy L. Sawyers, Senior Warden
Lloyd A. Park, Junior Warden
Henry D. Coley, Past Master
Upland ···················-----No. 419....J. Harry Snowden, Senior Warden··········-··- 50.90
Rooald R. Rowe, Junior Warden
W. R. Farmer, Past Master & Inspector........ 50.90
Kerman ···············------No. 420....Emmett D. Montague, Senior Warden..._..... H.76
Inglewood ..................-No. 421....Benjamin C. Darling, Master .......................... 47.56
Roy E . O'Neill, Senior Warden
John A. Dull, Past Master
Robert 0. Youmans, Past Master
Eagle Rock ·······-··-··--·..No. 422.... Bertram M. Potter, Senior Warden......·-······· 47.56
York ·····--······-·········--·--No. 423....Edwin K. McCabe, Senior Warden .............. 47.56
Exeter --·················----·No; 424....James E. Curry, Master ···-·-···-····················· 27.88
Herrick Waterman, Senior Warden
Holtville -······-·····-···---No. 425....Walter C. Williams, Senior Warden ............ 65.38
Midway •.........................No. 426....Fred Isbell, Master ····-·-··························-······ 33.68
Charles D. Knight, Senior Warden
·
Thomas Hilliary, Past Master and Inspector.. 33.68
Chino Valley ..................No. 427....J. W. Anderson, Senior Warden .................... 50.38
W. C. Walker, Past Master
San Dimas -·····•··--=---····No. 428.... Robert L. Summers, Senior Warden .............. 49.96
John Gustaf Soder, Past Master
Albert E. ·Carroll, Past Master & Inspector.... 49.96
Pittsburg ···-···--····-·-····No. 429....Fred A. Blackwell, Master ·························-··· 4.02
J. Stanley Bengston, Senior Warden
·
Raymond L. Wildes, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

423
Milease Allowed

W. Ralph Anderson, Past Master and
Inspector--·······-·········--·······-····················· 4.02
McCloud ······-·······-··-···No. 430....Donald L. Stone, Senior Warden.................... 36.12
Philip N. Myers, Grand Standard Bearer...... 36.12
Charles S. Hogan, Past Master and Inspector 36.12
Doyle. R. Brlegel, Past Master
Alpha -·-····················-···No. 431....Edwin R. Brooks, Master
Archibald P. Harlow, Senior Warden
Harry Joachim Stoffers, Junior Warden
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Henry L. Clarke, Past Master
William F. Fraser, Past Master
Joseph A. Jeans, Past Master
Hammonton ············-·····-~o. 433....Melvin E. Ewert, Past Master........................ 8.30
Maricopa ···-·················-No. 434....Carl E. Moore, Senior Warden ...................... 33.68
Fairmount ···················-···No. 435...cRoy A. Pence, Master
Robert C. Church, Junior Warden
Pieter A. DeVries, Past Master
William 0. Purdy, Past Master
Claremont ········----:..........No. 436....John B. Macfarlane, Senior Warden.............. 50.50
Lancaster ........................No. 437....Donald M. Taylor, Master···········-················· 39.86
Vernon D. Ward, Senior Warden
•
Acacia ..............................No. 438.... Albert Kiechle, Master-·-································· 47.56
Herman Kaestner, Past Master
Tyrian ·········-··········-·····No. 439....Jerry Pontemo, Junior Warden...................... 6.96
Standard ·-----·············-···No. HO....Elmer C. Hadlen, Master
Charles D. Sargent, Senior Warden
John R. Thompson, Junior Warden
Coronado ······-··········-···No. 441....R.aymond K. Eastman, Senior Warden.......... 50.84
Grover W. Nickell, JunlOI" Warden
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
John C. Pritz, Past Master
Harry Stanley Clark, Past Master
and Inspector ·······-·······--········':·····-········--· 50.84
Blackmer ············-···········-No; 442.... Fred E. Shideler, Senior Warden .................. 50.84
William H. Heritage, Junior Warden
Walter C. Langerman
Harry R. Atwood, Past Master
Warren E. Libby, Past Master
Orno E. Tyler, Past Master
Schofield ···--·-······---.,..--No. 443....0gden D. Pinkerton, Master .:·-··-·····--···-··..331.20
Frank E. Ahrendt, Junior Grand Steward......331.20
Carpinteria ··········--······-No. 444.... Harry C. Vind, Master •................................... 38.66
Donald J. Groves, Senior Warden ·
Ford G. Kline, Past Master
Wilshire ·····················-···No. 445....Tohn C. Mooning, Master ................................ 47.56
William B. Cleves, Senior Warden
Wlll H. Fischer, Past Grand Master.............. 47.56
Frederick E. Clark, Past Master & Inspector 47.56
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master ........................ 47.56
La Puente .....~...........•......No. 446....Rollin E. Pearson. Master ................................ 49.06
Gene H. Brown, Representative
Torrance ·--··············--···No. 447.... Fred 0. Bacon, Senior Warden ...................... 47.56
Mount Diablo ···-···········No. 448....Thomas R. Broyles, Master ............................ 3.40
William R. Blackburn, Senior Warden

424
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

George C . Johnson, Junior Warden
Royle E. King, Past Master
Parle --······-···········-···-·No. 449.... George W. Ritchie, Master
Frank Y. Kupper, Senior Warden
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Grand Master
John Ferguson, Past Master & Inspector
Reginald Duden, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys ······-··············No· 450....Willlam F. Rudolph, Master···-···-·············-· 47.56
Ralph W. Pettes, Senior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, Past Master & Inspector 4756
Montebello .................__No. 451....Lem C. Oavis, Master-··-······-···········-···-······ 47.56
R.H. Crowder, Senior Warden
Samuel H. Harris, Past Master
Robert L. Karnes, Past Master
Mervllle L. Lamb, Past Master
James W. O'Bryan, Past Master
San Pasqual ······-····----No. 452....Ben S. French, Jr., Master ···-························· -IB.60
Vernon G. Howell, Senior Warden
Emmitt 0. Graham, Past Master
Walter F. Kress, Past Master
Bethlehem ·--·····-···-·---.No. 453....Vadie E. Bevers, Master
. John C. Painter, Past Master
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Crocker ··-··········-···-·-··-No. 454....Harold S. Johnson, Master
Leonard Wester, Senior Warden
Ralph G. Riches, Junior Warden
M. Jay Jensen, Inspector and Past Master
William Caimie, Past Master
Edward E. Smith, Past Master
Golden West ·········-··-···No. 455....Chester R. MacPhee, Master
James H. Pierson, Senior Warden
Richard H. Nieboldt, Past Master
Ramona -·········---·····-··No. 457....0ra Bailey, Senior Warden ............:.....·-······· 47.56
J. Earl Mitchum, Junior Warden
Jack E. Anderson, Past Master
Henry S. Orme .....•........No. -458.... Merwyn N. Hollister. Master···-····················· 47.56
Milton H. Lang, Senior Warden
William B. Mott, Past Master
Robert F. Shippee, Past Master
Riverbank ····--·-··-·······-No. 459....Charles W. Riise, Representative.................... 8.38
Mount Oso ···-··-·--·--·····No. 460.... Bruce M. Hotchkiss, Master ·-····-··················· 5.78
Howard H. Chapman, Senior Warden
Argonaut ···············--···No. 461....Earl A. Caldwell, M<!-ster
Jay H. Netherton, Senior Warden
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Arthur H. Schroeder, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Paul Revere ··-··--···-··-No. 462.... Melvin S. Springer, Senior Warden
William Bachman, Past Master
Harry A. Fouch, Past Master
William A. Gerder, Past Master
Arthur J. Kahn, Past Master
Joel H. Springer, Sr., Past Master
Sylvan Springer, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representative.

425
Milaae Allowed

Morgan Hill •..•......•.....-No. 463....Jack Fullington, Master·············-·······-··········· 5.52
liarold Holden, Senior Warden
Alta Vista ··-·······-··--·No. 464....Wllliam E. Culver, Master
Wllliam E. Kidd. Senior Warden
Wllliam Butcher, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Raymond, A. Hurst, Past Master
Center --······-····-···-·--No. 465.._W. W. Hills, Junior Warden ····-···········-······ 23.76
S. E. Dollar, Past Master & Inspector...- ...... 23.76
Libertas -···--·-··---No. 466_.Harold A. Owens, Master ···---··-············· 32.48
Ralph A. Blocher, Senior Warden
Jay W. Chapin, Junior Warden
Robert J. Myers, Past Master
Raymond G. Taylor, Past Master -················ 32.48
Culver City ···········-···No. 467....Roy S. Ferre, Sr., Senior Warden ..•............. 47.56
William H. Cantrell, Past Master
Rockridge -·····-·····-··--No. 468.... Anthony C. Mecca, Master
Raymond K. Massingill, Senior Warden
Milton F. Henchel!, Junior Warden
Roy R. Beggs. Past Master
Yorba Linda -········-·-···No. 469....John W. Bosche, Master--·--·-·········-····-·· 47.56
Lincoln ·--··-·--·---No. 470....Melville P. Prince, Senior Warden
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren. Past Master
Alexander McBirney, Past Master
Delta ··-···--····--No. 471....George W. GrafBs, Master ·-···-··------ 6.86
Kenneth Emory Ellis, Senior Warden
Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Assistant Grand
Lecturer ···--····-·······-·---·-··-··- - - 6.86
Maul -··-·-··-····---No. 472....Norman H. Buxton, Senior Warden..............349.63
Eugene P. Jijine, Past Master and lnspector..349.63
Blythe -·-···-·----No. 473....Vernon L. Thompson, Master···············--·- 60.60
Innis R. Harris, Senior Warden
Victory ________.No, 474....Eclwin C. Mathisen. Junior Warden
Georqe V. B. McElwaln, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
America ·-···-··-·-·--No. 475....George 0. Fales. Master---·····-·-·············· 47.56
Eugene A. Balcom, Senior Warden
Coachella --··----No. 476..-Rowell E. Carlton, Junior Warden.......·-··- 58.44
Temblor ·-··-··-·___No. 477....George W. Huckaby,_ Master--··--·-····--· 32.48
L. E. Blakely. Past Master
Herschel W. Graves, Past Master
Thousand Oaks ··-··--No. 478....Robert H. Stitt, Master
Stanley I. Roberts, Senior Warden
Harold F. Hexner, Junior Warden
Kenneth R. Evans, Past Master
R. Percy Wisecarver, Past Master
Golden Rule ·-·····-·--·No. 479....Leonard W. Scott, Master ··-···-···-··············· 3.92
Albert E. Bluett, Senior Warden
Fellowship -··-·--···-··No. 480....Vlctor G. Saurman, Master
Howard C. Speulda, Junior Warden
Herman Zeller, Past Master
Mt. Davidson _ _ _..No. 481....Herbert E. Hall, Master
Edward H. Redford, Senior Warden
Ward M. Nichols, Junior Warden

426
N&111e of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Name of Lodge

Mileq:e Allowed

Arthur M. Warren, Grand Lecturer
Harold A. Meyer, Past Master
Albert P. deFerrari, Past Master
Joseph H. Jorgenson, Past Master
James M. Kemp, Past Master
Clarence F. Smlth............No. 482....Joseph Maiser, Master .................................... 47.56
·
Arthur V. Rice, Senior Warden
Bell •.................................No. 483....Fred G. Townsend, Master ............................ 47.56
James V. Gibson, Senior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Frank W. Pearce, Past Master
Thomas E. Schrey, Past Master
Albert Pike -~·············-···No. 484....James R. Gray, Senior Warden ...................... 47.56
Chowchilla ......................No. 485....Steven A. Upton, Master ····-·····················-·· 20.82
Gordon T. Gregory, Senior Warden
Caledonia ........................No. 486....Russel V. Ash, Master ...................................... 32.48
Walter W. Dearing, Senior Warden
H. Guy Walford, Junior Warden
W. Waters Shugart, Past Master
Vallejo ............................No. 487....Leonard 0. Anderson, Master ........................ 2.70
Frank A. Ward, Senior Warden
· William H. Rowe, Junior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master & Inspector 2.70
Alvin N. Hulse, Past Master
Edward Neuman, Past Master
Harry C. Siebert, Past Master
Patterson ...........:.........: .•..No. 488....William S. Cox, Senior Warden.................... 7.94
East Bay ··-············-········No. 489....J. Harland Plummer, Master
Arthur C. Green, Senior Warden
Milton G. Horgan, Junior Warden
William S. Armstrong, Past Master
Corcoran ····-·-·-·············No. 490....Arthur D. Hammond, Master .......................... 27.56
Floyd Griffeath, Senior Warden
. Woodstock .........:.......- ..No. 491....George A. Allen, Master
Marion A. Powers, Senior Warden
Frank E. Doherty, Junior Warden
Alvin A. Horwege, Grand Tiler
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
Allen J. Meuter, Past Master
William P. Self, Past Master
Garvanza ..•.................•...No. 492....Fred C. Clements, Senior Warden ...............: 47.56
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
John T. Young, Past Master
Atascadero ·········-······-···No. 493...,Jack N. Akers, Senior Warden........................ 26.18
Walter W . B. Clayton, Past Master
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
Acom ·····-··--··--·-···No. 494....George P. Silliman, Master
Theodore R. Arthur, Junior Warden
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Stewart B. Andrews, Past Master
E. Lloyd Hanson, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswick, Past Master

..

No. of Lodge

Representatives

427
. Mileage Allowed

Lebanon ..........................No. 495....Hmy Tri9ger, Master
Theodore A. Schlosberg, Senior Warden
Herbert L. Schenk, Junior Warden
John L. Cummings, Past Master & Inspector
Fremont ..................~.~....•.,No. 497....Troyce M. Severe, Master
James H. Wall. Senior Warden
Clyde J. Kramer, Junior Warden
Stockton ···-··--·····--··-···No. 498....Russell G. Crowe, Junior Warden.................. 6.86
Emmett Davis, Past Master
Capital Qty ....................No. 499....John T. Bailhache, Junior Warden..-............. 7.24
Roosevelt ........................No. 500....Gerald Monheim, Master
Henry Crespi, Senior Warden
Jerry J. Pastore, Junior Warden
Marvin K. Cloyd, Past Master
Otto C. Huth, Past Master
Westwood --·············-·No. SOL.Richard H. Glissman, Senior Warden ............ 32.28
Harbor ······-··········-···-No. 502....Harold J. Larson, Senior Warden
Harry(. Muller, Junior Warden
Point ···················-···-_No. 503._Claude F. Cross, Master
Mark Blythe, Senior Warden
Gust Allyn, Past Master
Seaside ---·················-.No. 504....hEverett Houser, Master···-······-··················· 47.56
ames B. Taylor, Senior Warden
elvin R. Berbower, Past Master and
Inspector-·-·········---····-·················-· 47.56
William T. Corbusier, Past Master
William J. Courtiour, Past Master
.
Silver Cord ···-······- ·---.No. 505....Robert E . Corcoran, Master ............................ 49.82
Walter 0. Wortendyke, Senior Warden
Mount Olive ··-- ·········-··No. 506....Ludus 0. Croxton, Master .............................. 47.56
Arthur Todd, Senior Warden
Ralph E. Heckler, Junior Warden
Russell Northrop, Past Master & Inspector.... 47.56
Karl V. Johnson, Past Master
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
Z. Rodriguez, Past Master
.
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master
El Segundo _____...No. 507....Charles A. Cutbirth, Senior Warden····--·-·· 47.56
Joppa ----········----···No. 508....Walter E. Fleharty, Master-·····-················· 23.76
Benjamin Franklin ..........No. 509....J. Frank Moore, Senior Warden .................... 47.56
Dr. Jay Montgomery, Junior Warden
Walter B. Rorick, Past Master
Cupertino ..................- ..No. 510....Martin A. Varner, Master--···-·············-·· 3.64
Euell B. Welch, Senior Warden
Louis J. Paviso, Junior Warden
C. R. Rylander, Past Master
Sunnyvale ···············---···No. 51 !....Henry L. Coates, Master -·················--··········- 3.50
Peter Almos, Senior Warden
Russell Potts, Junior Warden
William B. Adair, Past Master
Palms ---···--····--No. 512....James J. Eves, Master·····-····--·-·······-········ 47.56
Vernon E. Biile, Senior Warden
Cahuenga .................-No. ·513....David L. Todd, Master---·-················· 47.56
George E. Trezise, Senior Warden
Charles R. Kelley, Junior Warden

'428

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

llepreseat:atives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileqc Allowed

Roy C. Bryan, Past Master ·······--··············- 47.56
Charles L. Webber, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Argonne -----·-·-·-No. 514-..Jay Bruch, Master
Henry G. Mathewson. Past Master
David M. Taylor, Past Master
Vermont Square -··-···No. 515__George E. Ruppers, Master ............................ 47.56
Albert E. Linde, Senior Warden
Ford E. Jackson, Past Master
_.No, 516....Arthur E. Hanst, Master ·········--·-·············-··· 33.68
Taft
Jennings E. Muir, Senior Warden
Walter H. Ireland, Past Master
Mount Vernon _ ___No. 517....Martin L. Bertelsen, Jr., Master
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
Wilbur E. Gasklll, Past Master
Bryan B. Livesay, Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
La Jolla ····--··-----No. 518....Howard H. Shine, Representative···········-···· 50.84
Euclid ··----···--No. 519_..0hmer H. Shaeffer, Master .................·- ·········· 47.56
James C. Lower, Senior Warden
Roy G. Mead, Past Master
George S. Strait, Past Master
Ionic ·-·····---·-·-··No. 520....Nathan Schwartz, Senior Warden .................. 47.56
Bruce Avon, Past Master
Edward King, Past Master
Claude Lenz. Past Master
No. 521..- Wilson E. Cline, Master
Piedmont
Walter F. Schag, Senior Warden
Verle D. Vincent, Junior Warden
Richard H. Chamberlain, Past Master
Harold E. Hacker, Past Master
Verne R. Pentecost, Past Master
Edward H. Pitcher, Past Master
Kenneth A. Rice, Past Master
Sunrise --··-·-·---No. 522...Ray 0. Weymouth, Master···--··········-····- 47.56
Harold J. Tilton, Senior Warden
523....George T. Snyder, Jr., Master--··---·- 4756
Bellflower
Paul E. Hutchinson. Senior Warden
Catalina Island ____No. 524_Wilbur Scott. Master ·---··- ··-··-···-···-· 55.34
Archlba d L. Lauranse, Past Master
George Washington __No. 525-..Robert Bulloch, Jr.. Senior Warden
Chester M. Smith, Junior Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
No. 526....Maury Gersh, Master
Bay City - · ·
•
Charles H. Israel, Junior Warden
Covenant _ _____ __No. 527..-Everett Sylvester Todd, Master·- ······-·······- 47.56
Ross R. Wright. Senior Warden
Beverly Hills -·····---·No. 528..-Frank M. Jenkins, Master -···--·-·-·--- 47.56
Elbert C. Y uille, Senior Warden
·
Frank Harwell, Jr.. Assistant Grand Lecturer 47.56
Joe Bookman, Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Loyalty
No. 529..-Nat P. Morey, Master
· - - 4756
David A. Matlin, Senior Warden

-----...No.

l·

Name of Lodge

•

No. of Lodge

llepresent:ati-

429
Mileqe Allowed

Edgar V. Stewart. Jr., Past Master &
Inspector --···-···-·····-·-······················ 47.56
Marshall E. Green, Past Master
Joseph A. Visger, Past Master
Sun Garden ______ _No. 5.30_.Henry W. Herman, Senior Warden..·-········- 23.76
Herbert R. Hargrave, Past Master &
Inspector ·-·------··-·········· - - · - - 23.76
E. L. Coyle, Past Master
Alexandria ·-···-·-··-···No. 531....Harry A. Bolger, Master
James M. Kinberger, Senior Warden
Ralph C. McArthur, Junior Warden
Philip L. Chase, Past Master
Frank F. Goodman. Past Master
Teofil Svoboda, Past Master
Smyrna _ _ _ _ _ _No. 532....C. D. Ludden, Senior Warden..- - - - · ·-· 8.68
Wendall Aspinall, Junior Warden
Azure ----·---No. 533...Alfred A. McLean, Master.....·-·········-···-······ 49.46
Samuel 0. McCaughy, Senior Warden
Forest Hill --··---..No. 534....Earl S. Fall, Master
Alexander Hamilton ___No. 535....Roland M. Snow, Senior Warden.--........... 47.56
•
Gordon N. McHenry, Junior Warden
Seal Rock -·-··-··--·No. 536....Edwin W. Korte, Master
·
Frank Gedgate, Senior Warden
Otto Stewart. Junior Warden
Utopia ··-··- ·-----No. 537_..Frederick K. Ehrhardt. Senior Warden.. ___ 47.56
Arthur Beard, Junior Warden
F. T . Nagle, Past Master
Ascot - - -·--- --··- No. 538_Wallace Drennan Keown, Master ········-····- 47.56
Lyman E. Farris, Senior Warden
Belvedere ····-·---...No. 539_ .Carl G. Molin, Master - ·-······-·-··-···-···-··· 47.56
Paul Clark. Senior Warden
· Romulus A. Anderson, Junior Warden
Queen Beach ··-----No. 540....Charle E. Whittle, Mast.er
47.56
Marvel Fairchild, Senior Warden
Henry Morse Stephens..No. 541....William W. Myers, Master
Russell H. Archerd, Senior Warden
C. Melcin Davis, Past Master
Paul L. Higley, Past Master
A. Lewis Koue, Past Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Carlisle D. Nielsen. Past Master
Boyd B. Rakestraw, Past Master
Merle Randall, Past Master
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
Robert H. Taylor, Past Master
Lankershim ···-·--·----.No. 542....John M. Collins, Master - -- - ···-··-·---·- 47.56
Victor M. Burt, Junior Warden
Signal _____ ___No. 543....Jesse J. Hill, Master···-·--·············-······-·-··· 47.56
Robert A. Long, Senior Warden
Glendale ···-·--··-·-_No. 54L.John E. Tufts, Master -··-·-- ·····-··-··-····-···· 47.56
George C. Syvarth, Senior Warden
Jonathan
.No. 545._Perry M. Spencer, Master
Frank F. Furay, Senior Warden
James Scoftleld. Junior Warden

430

.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodge

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Represenutives

Mileaae .Allowed

San Gabriel ·······-······-···No. 546.... Elton T. Knowles, Master ···-··-·········-············ 48.38
Herbert M. Shaffer, Senior Warden
Paul Koetz, Junior Warden
George Hahn, Past Master
Arcadia -···-····--···-·······No, 547.... Samuel H. Hawkins, Master········-·-··············· 47.56
Arthur M. McDaniel. Senior Warden
Triangle ..........- ..............No. 548....Edgar F. Howard, Master •............................. 47.56
George Ellis, Senior Warden
Robert Vicars, Junior Warden
Justice ··-··-···-·-····-··-···No. 549.... Earl Conner, Master
Emmet J. Pierce, Senior Warden
William R. Campbell, Junior Warden
Rush Manbert, Past Master and Inspector
William W . Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
George D. Hom, Past Master
Frank R. Jackson, Past Master
Seaport .......... -.,.....~.,..;.No. 550.... Emest C. Krause, Master
Edward J. Barrett, Senior Warden
' Walter A. Huber, Junior Warden
Walter H. E. Von Konsky, Assistant Grand
Lecturer
Frederick J. Dykstra, Past Master
F. D. Harris, Past Master
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
.
John G. Wullschleger, Past Master
Lakeshore ·.:......................No. 551....Mynard Jones, Master
Paul S. Boren, Senior Warden
Donald J. Clark, Junior Warden
Charles C. Buckley, Past Master
Lee B. Berguson, Past Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
Lloyd W. Hanson, Past Master
John R. McKallp, Past Master
Semper Vireos ....•..•..•.....No. 552.... Earl T. Johnson, Junior Warden................._..• 30.78
,
Alexander Duncan, Past Master & Inspector.. 30.78
<::larence A. Trowbridge, Past Master
Educator ·-······-·--····__No. 554.~.Wllliam M. Milligan, Master
Alton Wood, Senior Warden
John K. MacKenzie, Junior Warden
Roy Wieland, Past Master
.
, Ralph M. Small, Past Master
White Pine ····-······-··--·No. 555.... Not Represented
Fairfax --·····-·····-·.····--No. 556.... Kenneth S. Maslen, Master
Charles R. BanBeld, Senior Warden
John F. Cartamo, Past Master ·
Bert E. Hartmann, Past Master
' Lester M. Jones, Past Master
Lester C. Short, Past Master
Hermosa ·-·······················No. 557....John C. Sams, Senior Warden.......................... 47.56
Point Firmin ··············-·-No. 558.... W. Danell Milton, Master
Wasson L. Doughty, Senior Warden............ 47.56
Craftsmen ........................ No. 559....James G. Tucker, Master
Zed H. Benson, Senior Warden......·-·········· 47.56
Plymouth ··········--·········No. 560....Willlam F. Stumpf, Master
Gerald E. Rhine, Senior Warden
George M. Bagley, Junior Warden

..

..

No. of Lodge

Representatives

431
Mileage .Allowed

Edward H. Siems, Grand Master
W. Paul Reagor, Grand Chaplain
James G. Disher, Past Master & Inspector
Herbert A. Adams, Past Master
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Hal H. Bennett, Past Master
Harold G. Crew, Past Master
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Herbert M. McCracken, Past Master
William G. Thumann, Past Master
Edward K. Woods, Past Master
East San Diego ·-···········No. 561....0rville B. Usher, Senior Warden.................... 50.84
Raymond E. Fouts, Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Robert G. Woll, Past Master
Pyramid ············-········-No. 562....John H. Brooke, Master
William G. Snetsinger, Senior Warden
William H. Murphree, Junior Warden
Eugene A. Tipton, Past Master
·
South Park ......................No. 563....Carl H. Llndegren, Master .............................. 47.56
Herbert Van Riper, Senior Warden
Max F. Vail, Past Master
Foothill ·······-···········-·····No. 564....Ray A. Farley, Master
Charles S. Doyle, Senior Warden
Elston S. Runyon, Junior Warden
Ben L. Mlller, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
West Adams ···········-·····No. 565....Carl D. Johnson, Senior Warden...................• 47.56
James A. Garlleld............ No. 566.... Ralph W. Collins. Master ................................ 47.56
Paul F. Mattoon, Senior Warden
Gordon A. Boelter, Junior Warden
Joseph H. Fraizer, Past Master
Philip M. Couturier, Past Master
Henry Honaker, Past Master
Searchlight •....................:No. 567....Wallace B. Harville, Master ............................ 47.56
Robert R. Shinn, Senior Warden
Park Boulevard ..:_ ..........No. 568.... Harry D. Hosac, Master
·
Willis V. McBeth, Senior Warden
Francis A. Roberts, Junior Warden
Chateau Thierry ............No. 569 .... John E. Abbott, Master
Ralph E. Prentice, Senior Warden
Willis J. McCaleh, Junior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, Past Master and Inspector
D. L. Babcock, Past Master
Military Service ..•.........~o. 570.... Hubert A. Hemphill, Senior Warden
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Robert J. Martin, Past Master
Fred Somers, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck........No. 571.... E. W. Davis, Past Master and Inspector
James Madison ................ No. 572....Wesley 0. Elderkin, Master ............................ 47.56
Jay D. Wlllard, Senior Warden
Hillcrest ···-·······················No. 573.... Robert B. Stille, Master
S. W. Hackett..................No. 574....Wllliam E. Rife, Jr., Master·-·--········-··- 50.84
William E. Davies, Senior Warden

432
Name of Lodse

...

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodse

Representatives

Name of Lodse

Mileage Allowed .

Fort Crook -·-···---..No. 575.... K. G. Sublette, Senior Warden···-··-············ 33.88
Reginald Reynolds, Inspector and Past
Master ········-···-·--·······-·····--···············- 33.88
Otho Stewart, Past Master
EI Cajon Valley..............No. 576....Vemor B. Davey, Muter--···························· 51.80
Byron J. Conrad, Senior Warden
Sunnyside -·····-······-··-···No· 577....Murray H. Todd, Master············-·················· 47.56
J. L. Oark, Senior Warden
louis H. Mahler, Past Master and Inspector.. 47.56
F. Weslt?}' Davies, Past Master····················- 47.56
Guy A. Tolle, Past Master
Percy L. Bruner, Past Master
John A. Low, Past Master
Progressive ··--··-·-No. 578....Wl1liam H. Durham, Master---·····-············ 47.56
Walter Land, Senior Warden
Perry R. Borden, Past Master
Junius H. Edwards, Past Master
Roy 0. Ml1ler, Past Master
Warren G. Harding...- ... No. 579.... David Wilson, Master--....--····--··:·-··-··· 7.24
Ray M. Smith, Senior Warden
Henry R. Brown, Past Master
Santa Marla -·············-··No. 580....Ewlng_ C. Bernhard, Master............................ 50.84
Kay V. Smith, Past Master
Security -·-··········-······-···No. 581....Bryce C. Rathbun, Master .............................. 32.48
Earl D. Forgie, Senior Warden
Charles W. Grimm, Junior Warden
Rialto --·--···---No. 582_..Truitt E. Fritz, Senior Warden ···-················ 52.24
Wasco
· No. 583....Carl R. Waugh, Senior Warden-··---··-··· 26.58
Fred C. Prltschke, Past Master and Inspector 26.58
Harding --·-···-·····--No. 584....Anson MacArthur, Master ·-····--················· 47.56
Warren S. Pitman, Senior Warden
Louis E. Sage, Past Master
Manchester ······-···-···--·No. 585._.CJark Humphrey, Master ··-···························· 47.56
Ralph C. Ferguson, Senior Warden
Gilbert J. Anderson, Junior Warden
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Master
Garden Grove ···-·····-····No. 586....James H. Cockerham, Past Master
and Representative··----···························- 49.82
Valley Porge ···--··.No. 587....Elbert G. Thomas, Master --···-····················- 47.56
Frank T. Pond, Senior Warden
Charles S. Barrett, Past Master
Charles Hauser, Past Master
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
El Sereno -····-··•··---··No. 588....Walter E. Dresser, Senior Warden........:....... 47.56
Kauai -·--···--·_No· 589....Leonard T. Connon, Past Master -·-···-········..349.63
Compass --··-····-··-·-···No. 590._.Raymond R. Bowman, Senior Warden···-····· 50.38
Escalon ·-··-·········-···-··-No• 591....George A. Wallace, Master······-················· 8.24
Arch Roberson. Past Master and Inspector.... 8.24
Tujunga ·-·-··-·······_No. 592....Eugene A. Haisch, Senior Warden-·-··-·-··· 47.56
All States --··-·--·-··.No. 593....Hubert H. Keesling, Master_·-·-······-············ 47.56
Homer M. Walker, Senior Warden
Service
No. 594..-Charles J. Wentz, Master--··-···--··-·-·--· 47.56
Vincent S. Hoopes, Senior Warden

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

...

...

No. of Lctclge

Representatives

433
Mileage Allowed

Harry Linville, Past Master
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander G. BelL._....No. 595....Graham A. Backus, Master ···············-······-··· 47.56
Frank L. Robertson, Senior Warden
James G. Lyons, Past Master
Guardian ····-·-······-···-No. 596.... Danlel B. Erwin, Senior Warden...·-···-····-· 47.56
Howard Laurent, Past Master and Inspector 47.56
Frank Baddeley, Past Master
Pearl Harbor ..................No. 598 ....William E. Leck, Master - · ··-····--····--··.331.20
Carmelita ·-···-·----..No. 599....Milton J. Seidel, Master···········-···-············-··· 48.60
Jay D. Rinehart, Senior Warden
J. Tyler Parker, Jr., Past Master and
Inspector -·--····------··········-········ 48.60
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood _______ ___No. 600....LeRoy Shadrach, Master··-··-·····---······· 47.56
Edward M. Stitz, Senior Warden
Earl V. Yolton, Junior Warden
Alphonse Kobloth, Past Master
Grizzly ···········-·-···--No. 601....George M. Saxton, Master--·-······················ 29.50
Melrose ················-----No. 602....Judson M. Evans, Muter---·-·-················ 47.56
Frederick M. Dodge, Senior Warden
Dimond ··--··············--No. 603....Eugene F. Williams, Master
Laroy Kavert, Senior Warden
Alfred E. Wheeler, Junior Warden
Frederick E. M. Jones, Past Master
Irving S. Ketels, Past Master
George W. Shokal, Past Master
Jubilee ---··---·-·-•-No. 60L.Harold G. Kragh, Master-··--······-··········-·' 49.82
Polk A. Dowell, Senior Warden
John Kahler, Past Master
Glasse11 Park ············-····No. 605....R. E. Oeland, Master ··-·····:·-····················-··· 47.56
Frank W. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector ···-·················································- 47.56
Sojourner ·-·············--No. 607....Francis T. Johnson, Senior Warden.............. 49.02
Fred D. Beatty, Past Master
Granada -······-·······--No. 608....A. T. Kline, Master ·····-·············-··············-···· 47.56
Donald S. Lemon, Senior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, Past Master and
Inspector ···-···-···················-·········--····-···· 48.60
Frank Richmond
F. N. Gilbert, Past Master
Provident -··········-··--·-No. 609.•.Rarry A. Applequist, Master...---·····-···----- 7.24
Robert I. Chadwick, Senior Warden
Elmhurst -··-····-·-······No. 610.... Sldney H. Brown, Junior Warden
Nathan Goldstone, Past Master
Canoga -·-·····-·······--..No. 611....Norris A. Reavis, Master ................................ 47.S6
John D. Barton, Senior Warden
Herbert W. Allen, Past Master
Walter W. Fitzgerald, Past Master
Temple City ·············-·····No. 612....Alvin P. Baker, Senior Warden................. ____ 47.56
Henry F. Antoine, Past Master
Three Pillars -·········-·--No. 613..-Paul W. Carrington, Master ···········-············· 7.24
Howard V. Cameron, Junior Warden
Miles J. McClelland, Past Master and
Inspector -···--·-----·-··-··-···-···- 7.24

434
Name of Lodse

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodse

Reprcscntlltives

M;Iease Allowed

Larchmont ...................._No. 614....Roy Lineaweaver, Master ................................ 47.56
Karl Bennett, Senior Warden
George P. Salm, Past Master and.Inspector.. 47.56
Newcomb Condee, Past Master ...................... -47.56
Herbert H. Cooper, Past Master .................... 47.56
Hemet ............................-No. 615....Ray R. Bell, Past Master and Inspector.......... 56.94
R. E. Dolley........:...........No. 616....Ned I. Frost, Senior Warden........................~. 47.56
Fred B. Gray, Junior Warden
Big Bear ..........................No. 617....David H. Callahan, Senior Warden................ 52.24
Southland ........................No. 618.... Harry L. Lewallen, Master························-···· 47.56
T. Howard Davis, Senior Warden
John A. Crosbie, Past Master and Inspector.. 47.56
Alfred H. Campion, Past Master
Harry V. Van Osdol, Past Master
Neptune ······················-·No. 619....0wen J. McCartney, Master............................ 47.56
Robert C . Davis, Senior Warden
Point Loma ···-··- ··:..........No. 620....J. Milford Johnson, Master --···--··········- ···-·50.84
Glenn M. Smith, Senior Warden
Walter V . Tisdale, Junior Warden
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
Leroy W . Lee, Past Master
The Gardens ......~...........No. 621....Floyd S. Vandegrift, Master .......................... 47.56
Rudolph Mezorl, SeniQr Warden
George V. Jameson, Past Master
Atwater ··-- ·-······- -- --No, 622_Donald P: Wilkinson, Master ........................ 47.56
S. Myrle Cloyed, Senior Warden
esse M. Few, Junior Warden
ames C. Taylor, Past Master
Menorah ..•.......................No. 623....Albert V. Youngs, ' Master..·- ······-··················· 47.56
Herman I. Taylor, Senior Warden
Fortitude --·-······-············No. 624....Ralph M. Webb, Master
Angeles Mesa ................_No. 625.... Roy G. Grum, Master············-······················· 47.56
Frank A. Taylor, Senior Warden
Gordon S. Duncan, Past Master
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista ..................- No, 626....George A. Ward, Senior Warden.................. 50.84
John H. Greife, Junior Warden
Lamanda Park ············- ··No. 627...:Fay R. Shaver, Master......·-········-··················· 48.60
Paul Barton, Senior Warden
Truth -···············-·····- ··- No. 628....0skar K Kopperud, Senior Warden ............ 47.56
Reginald W. Chipman. Past Master
Jules W. VonGende, Past Master
Fairview ·--····---······- ·No. 629....W . Al Richard, Master·-·-·····-······················· 47.56
John E. Comley, Senior Warden
John A. Howard, Junior Warden
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
L. W. Burbank, Past Master
Ingleside ·········-·---····-·No. 630.... Harry L. Wilson. Master
John W. Powell, Senior Warden
Lloyd E . Wilson, Past Grand Master and
Grand Secretary
Henry C. Clausen, Past Master
Fred B. Vinter, Past Master
Harry S. Walker, Past Master
Benevolence ...........•........No. 631....Harold R. Horner, Master .............................. 47.56
Roy H. Schwieger, Senior Warden

J

IJ ..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Representatives

435
Mileage Allowed

Normal Heights ·····-······No. 632....Bentley W. Buck, Senior Warden ................ 50.84
Leland E. Kellerhouse, Junior Warden
Willis R. Frazee, Past Master
Poinsettia ··········-···-·······No. 633.... Homer T. Main, Master ···························- -· 39.98
Guy S. Harts, Sr., Senior Warden
Carl E . Axelson, Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Junior Grand Warden...... 47.56
Victorville ........•...............No. 634....Dean Stafford, Master ······················-·· -····· 47.66
Riverside -···········-········No. 635.... NaDell E. Jensen, Master ···········-··-··········-· 52.24
Ralph H. Munson, Senior Warden
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
Henry W. Coil, Past Master
John Marshall ··········-····No. 636....Mervin J. Davidson, Master ·······-···············- 47.56
Albert A. Buelow, Senior Warden
Glenn H. Harman, Junior Warden
Joe F. Conlan
Oscar L. Lundberg, Past Master
Atwill Morgan, Past Master
Edward A. Underwood, Past Master
Palisades - ··············- ····-No. 637....Charles N. Carrell, Master ·······-·-·······-··-··· 47.56
Jose2h T. K1,1glin, Senior Warden
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock ·······- ·-···-···No. 638.... Hollis G. Duckworth, Master
Frederick T . Herrick, Past Master
Edward L. Kearney, Pa5t Master
John M. Server, Jr., Past Master
Hubert F. Stanley, Past Master
.Composite ···- -············-···No. 639...Louis L. Levi, Master...·-······--·········-··- ·-······· 47.56
Maurice Eisenman, Senior Warden
Veritas ···-··········-··-·······No. 640....Walter Keates, Master
Washington Irving Kohnke, Past Master
and Inspector
Winfield Attenborough, Past Master
Irving J. Kohnke, Past Master
· Cliarles R. O'Donnell, Past Master
William F. Poynter, Past Master
.
R. Austin W iswell, Past Master
James A. Foshay............No. 64L..LeDroit C. Prosser, Senior Warden................ 47.56
La Cumbre ··········--·--····No. 642....Vaughn W. Sears, Senior Warden············-·· 37.74
William W. McKee, Past Master
Alta Loma .............:...•....No: 643.... Floyd 0. Mason, Master-······-···················· 47.56
Clyde B. Carter, Senior Warden
A. J. Volz, Past Master
Lomita -- -·-·····- - ··-···No. 644.... Alvin L. Crawford, Junior Warden ................ 47.56
A. F. E. lrwin.....-........_...No. 645_..Edward L. West, Senior Warden ................ 47.56
Clyde W. Forester, Junior Warden
Metropolitan ············- ····No. 646....W. Ray Murray, Master ................................ 47.56
·
·
Bradford J. Flanagan, Senior Warden
Franklin N. Everett, Past Master
Hawthorne ····----······- ·.No. 647....Arie L. Alexander, Senior Warden-··········- ·· 47.56
John A. Owen, Past Master and Inspector..- 47.56
Damascus .......................•No. 648....William G. Chamberlain, Master .................... 52.24
James L. Wingrove, Senior Warden
0. Ervin Adamson, Junior Warden
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master

436
Name of I.odae

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodse

hpresenutiws

Name of I.odae

Mileqe Allowed

Florence -·-··-·-···-·-····No. 649....Alfred P. Schwarting, Master--········-·-···-- 47.56
Willard N. Hughes, Senior Warden
LaBrea ·----·---No. 650_..W. James Mann, Master--·-··--·····--·· 47.56
Ben Pel'!]'. Senior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr., Past Master
Charles F. Laverty, Past Master
Ray S. Smith. Past Master
John W. Swank, Past Master
Menlo Park ···-·······-······No. 651....Hugh L. Phillips, Master -·--·············-··-·· - 3.28
William E. Todd, Senior Warden
Max R. Boyens, Junior Warden
Herbert A McKechnle, Past Master
David Wright. Past Master
Crescenta Valley ···-·······No. 652....Marlon E. Vore, Senior Warden·······-··········· 47.56
Fontana ···---'··-··--No. 653._.James Anderson Morris, Senior Warden-···· 47.56
Charles W. O'Neal. Junior Warden
Jordan ---------No. 654....Wilhelm Mitzel, Master --·····-··-···········-·· 47.56
Frank C. Smith, Senior Warden
Leonard Gross, Past Master
Monte Vista -·······-·········No. 655.... Donald K. Pullman, Master ···········-··············· 47.56
Edward E. Smith, Senior Warden
Earl L. Milligan, Past Master
Jay S. Walton, Past Master
Cltrol
····-·--···No. 656....Albert 0. Johnson, Master ····-·········-·······-·· 49.70
Neal L. Hood, Senior Warden
Carl E. Goll, Junior Warden
Floyd F. Finch, Past Master
John D. Spreckels............No. 657....James Brownlee, Master ···-···-·········-············· 50.M
Clifford 0. Whitmarsh, Senior Warden
Robert L. Dill, Past Master
John T. Martin, Past Master
Livingston ---·-··-·--No. 658.... Gordon H. Winton, Past Master and
Representative -······-··-·-··-·--···-··········-··· 18.24
La Habra --···---·-No. 659....Arthur C. Schroeder, Senior Warden ·········-· 49.42
Baldwin Park ---·-·······No. 660....Marold F. Ross, Senior Warden····-··········-·· 47.56
Malta -----··--·--·_No. 66L..Lester S. Orves. Senior Warden..---··-··········- 47 56
·
Roy S. Barber, Past Master
Henry Knox ·····-··-·No. 662....EddyD. Field, Master --···-············-- 47.56
A WlnBeld Jones, Senior Warden
Nelson R. Smith, Junior Warden
Ojai ---······---No. 663....Carl M. Burgess, Master·--········--··-··········· 35.12
·
Clifford L. Harris, Senior Warden
Bonnie G. Wear, Junior Warden
Kaweah
No. 665_.William R. Petersen. Master·--··--···- 27.38
Reseda ------·-······-No. 666.... John W. Workman, Master---·-·----·-···· 47.56
Y. Elmer Cantrell, Senior Warden
Meridian --··-·······-···-·-No. 667.... Frank W. Raddatz, Master ···········-··············· 47.56
William C. B. Bolton, Senior Warden
Clarence E. Glaze, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master ··-·-········· 47.56
San Gorgonio _______No. 668.-Roy R. Miller, Senior WardetL.-·-·-···-·,·-·· 54.66
Glen M. Russell, Junior Warden
John P. Jarman................No. 669.... ~r~~i.a~:ci~~s~~·w-;;d~---··········· 3.92
Nels H. Johnson, Past Master and Inspector.. 3.92

I

No. of I.odae

Representatives

437
Mileqe Allowed

Greenleaf ···-······-·········-No. 670.... H. M. Topping, Jr., Master ............................ 48.78
W. C. Walkley, Senior Warden
Warren R. Fitch, Past Master
San Clemente ____ No, 671....Larry D. Snow, Junior Warden-·-······-·-···· 49.14
Laguna Beach -·······-·····No. 672.... Henry C. Davis, Master·····-·-················--· 47.56
Kelvin W. A. Balley, Junior Warden
W. Benjamin Sorrels, Past Master
Far West ;.·-···-··-··-··No. 673....Cedl Tuff, Master
Earl B. Myers, Senior Warden
George E. Crocker, Junior Warden
John 0. Clasby, Past Master
.
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Dean Wilson. Past Master
Los Cerritos --··-·--·No. 674....Arthur J. Sissons, Master····--······-·····-·- 47.56
Modesto --····~-----·-No• 675...Edgar W. Prahser, Senior Warden.............. 8.32
Willow Glen ·---·--···No. 676_..Edwin W. Grebbell, Master·--···············-···· 3.92
Quincy L. Davis, Senior Warden
Liberal Arts ···-······-··-No. 677....Howard M. Wilson, Master --··-·····-······- 47.56
Reynold F. Blight. Senior Warden
William P. Warmack, Junior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Deputy_Grand Master ...... 47.56
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master
Robert H. Christman, Past Master
Delbert D. Colley, Past Master
Floyd Goodan, Past Master
Frank M. Reinsch, Past Master
Altadena -····-····-·-·····-No. 678....Marc L. Maylor, Master-·······-····················· 47.56
Claude B. Moss, Senior Warden
Verner A. Jacobson, Past Master
Canby Cross _______ No. 679.... Not Represented
Carmel ·-···----·-No. 680....E. Herbert Santee, Master ···--·········-·-··- 10.08
Gordon C. Browne, Past Master
Charles A. Watson, Past Master
James R. Zuck, Past Master
Los Palos ________No. 68L.Marv!n R. McHenry, Senior Warden ............ 11.54
Rodney R. Roberts, Junior Warden
Glenn C. Holmes, Past Master -······----·-· 25.26
John H. Sorenson, Past Master
Barstow ________ __No. 682....Clyde H. Feurt, Master
Ernest J. McMichael, Senior Warden ............ 45.20
Redwood Empire ____No. 683.._Warren P. Williams, Jr., Master-·-··········- 22.76
Trana _ _ _ _ _ _No. 684._Harry 0. Diehl, Master ···-···-··-·-··-······-·- 43.62
Ernest R. Stevens, Senior Warden
Frank H. Wells, Junior Warden
San Marino ···--···__No. 685....George R. Friederich, Master ······················-·· 48.60
Wilbur R. Teets, Senior Warden
Earl E. Lyons, Junior Warden
William B. McKesson. Past Master
William J. Williams, Past Master···········-- 47.56
Albany _________No. 686....Carl J. MacWilliams, Master
Frank S. Spires, Senior Warden
Cecil E. Boekenoogen, Junior Warden
Ambrose R. Graham, Past Master
William R. Ross, Past Master

438
Name of Loclac

PROCEEDINGS OF THE '
No. of Loclac

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milcqe Allowed

Vista ···········-······-···········No. 687.... 0yde A. Shower, Senior Warden ··············- 54.40
Alvin L. Lang, Junior Warden
Oildale - ··-···············---No. 688.... Lawrence L. Johns, Master··········-·····-····-··· 32.48
Frank H. Martin, Senior Warden
William F. Gamble, Junior Warden
Pohona ···············-·········.No. 689.... Dean D. Shepherd, Senior Warden ·-············· 30.84
Wilbur D. Crosby, Past Master
San Carlos ......................No. 690....Walter C. Simon, Master
John K. Hopklrk, Senior Warden
Indian Wells....................No. 691....Theodore C. Parker, Master·······················-··· 40.62
Joseph H . Haycock, Senior Warden
Robert H. Dudley, Junior Warden
Art R. Hestand, Past Master
Travelers ··············-- ···No. 692.... Harry L. Jaspar, Master---··············-····-······ 7.24
Harry D. Brainard, Junior Warden
J. H. D. Bassett, Past Master
Palm Springs -··············-No. 693....C. S. Raymond, Senior Warden..·-·······--······ 50.46
San Antonio ··········-···--No. 694.... Dudley _E. Goddard, Master ··························- 47.56
R. C. Martin, Senior Warden
R. F. McCurdy, Past Master
Clement Y. Reed, Past Master
Meudell ························-··No. 695.... Frank M. Wilkson, Master ·························-··· 32.48
Kenneth R. Cresswell, Senior Warden
Dewey A. Horton, Junior Warden
Crossroads ··················-··No. 696....Earle F. Sheffield, Senior Warden .................. 50.84
St. Elmo ···········-··········--N<>. 697._.George C. Ferenz, Master
John W. Haugh, Senior Warden
Edward A. Nelson, Past Master
William D. Stephens......No. 698.... Stanton A. Bruner, Master ····························- 47.56
Arthur M. Loomis, Senior Warden
Curtis C. Legerton, Past Master
Ralph G. Ritchie, Past Master
Bixby Knolls ..................No. 699.... Perry H. Barrett, Master .................................. 4756
Donald B. McKay, Senior Warden
Ponderosa ··-··············-·-·No. 700....Joseph F. Coyle, Master ···-····················---····· 23.76
Paul C. McCorkle, Junior Warden
Owen L. Craghead. Past Master
Glen C. Harnish, Past Master
Santa Ynez Valley......_..No. 701....Charles W. Jessup, Master ··················-········ 35.16 ·
Rosemead ···-·····--···-:::No; 702_.Harry D. Leonard, Master··················--········ 47.56
John Edwin Butters, Senior Warden
Joseph C. Wilt, Past Master
Westchester ··········-······--U D .._.Herbert Pleasant. Master ···············-··-·-······· 47.56
James L. Miles, Senior Warden
bavid R. White, Junior Warden
Orinda··-···········--··-•-·.U D._..Wilhur D. Crosby, Past Master, Credentials
Committee ····- ·····-·-- ·······-··-············-·-· 1.60
El Cerrito ·····-········-··- -U. D .....Gene C. OtWell, Master
Joseph E. Van Etten. Senior Warden
John L. Wixon, Junior Warden
NOTE: In accordance with the law, payments were made to Past Masters, where
shown, in official and authorized capacities, and not to Past Masters as such.
See reports of Committee.on Credentials and Committee on Pay of Members.

439

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5949
Lodo•

No.

Location

Charter
luuad

San Francisco ........ 18 50
Shasta •................... 1850
Sacramento ............ 1850
3 Tehama ··-····················· 3
Benicia .................. 1850
4 Benicia ···········-············· S'
S' Tuolumne .................... 8
Sonora .................... 1850
6 Corinthian .................... 9 Marysville .............. 18S'O
7 San Jose ........................ 10
San Jose ................ 1850
8 Yount-·························· 12 Napa ...................... 18S'l
9 Nevada .......................... 13
Nevada City .......... 18S'l
10 Temple·········-··············· 14 Sonoma .................. 18S'l
11 Eureka .......................... 16 Auburn --··············· 18 n
12 La Parfaite Union ........ 17
San Francisco
1852
18
13 Mountain Shade
Downieville ............ 1852
14 San Joaquin .................. 19 Stockton ·······-······· 1852
1 S' Washington .................. 20
Sacramento
1852
16 Hawaiian ...................... 21
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1852
17 Occidental .................... 22 San Francisco ........ 1852
18 Madison •....................... 23 · Grass Valley .......... 18S'3
19 Mariposa ...................... 24 Mariposa ................ 18S'3
20 Georgetown .................. 2S'
Georgetown ........... 1853
21 El Dorado .................... 26
Placerville .............. 18 S'3
Weaverville ............ 1853
22 Trinity ·-······················· 27
23 Golden Gate ..............•. 30
San Francisco ........ 18S'3
24 Gold Hill ...................... 32 Lincoln ·············-··· 18 S'3
Murphy's ................ 1853
25 Ophir ·'-························· 33
26 San Diego .................... 3 S'
San Diego .............. 1853
27 Howard .•...................... 37
Yreka .................... 18H
28 Santa Cruz .................... 38
Santa Cruz .............. 18H
29 Sacramento .................. 40
Sacramento ...,........ 18H
30 Martinez ........................ 41
Martinez ................ 1854
31 Los Angeles .................. 42 Los Angeles .......... 18H
El Dorado .............. 1854
32 Hiram ·······-················· 43
33 Mount Moriah .............. 44
San Francisco ........ 18H
34 Crescent ........................ 4S'
Crescent City ........ 18S'4
3S' Texas ............................ 46 San Juan ·-············· 1854
36 Forbestown .................. S'O Forbestown ............ 18S'4
37 Illinoistown .................. S' 1 Colfax •.•................. 18H
38 Suisun ···················-····· S'S'
Suisun ··-················ 18H
39 Volcano ........................ S'6 Volcano •................. 18H
40 Santa Rosa .................... 57
Santa Rosa ............ 18H
Sacramento
18H
41 Union ·-······················· S'S
42 Gravel Range ................ S'9
Camptonville .......... 18H
43 Plumas .......................... 60 Quincy ···········-····· 18H
Oakland ................ 18 S'S'
44 Live Oak ·-··················· 61
45 Natoma ..................... _ 64 Folsom .................... 18H
46 Amador ........................ 6S'
Jackson .................. 18H
47· Forest ............................ 66
Alleghany .............. 18H
48 Morning Star ................ 68
Stockton ·-············· 18H
49 Enterprise .................... 70
Yuba City -············ 18H
S'O Bear Mountain .............. 76
Angel's Camp ........ 1855
n Calaveras ·······-············· 78 San Andreas .......... 18 S'S'
52 Humboldt .................... 79
Eureka ···-··············· 1855
S'3 Ione .............................. 80
Ione •••.••.................• 18S'6
S'4 Yolo .............................. 81
Yolo ...................... 18S'6
H Vesper .......................... 84 Red Bluff ................ 18S'6
,.6 Naval ···············-··········· 87 Vallejo -················ 18S'6
1 California ·-···················

2 Western Star ................

1

2

Aflll.

Fees

Faas

100
S'O
7S'
7S'
75
50
7S'
60
50

12
12
12
12
2.00 12
12
S'.00 12
12
12
2.00 12
12
15.00 12
12
12
10.00 12
10.00 12
2S'.OO 12
12
12
5.00 12
5.00 12
5.00 12
10.00 12
1.00 12
4.00 12
12
1.00 12
1.00 12
10.00 12
12
10.00 12
10.00 12
10.00 12
6.00 12
1.00 12
5.00 12

20.00
6.00
10.00

Dues

Mam·
bars

546
IS'O
706
213
247
381
S'17
463
163
50
185
50
303
100
118
50
49
80
717
7S'
724
125
486
100
746
78
30S'
50
192
50
60
50
239
50
110
60
623
50
101
50
64
80
911
S'O
248
80
441
7S'
717
75
372
70
753
7S'
74
100
419
50
166
S'O
S'l
50
94
S'O
l2 84
50
12 184
S'O 10.00 12
S'3
7S'
S'.00 12 S'60
75 10.00 12 684
S'O
12
6S'
125
2.50 12 182
75 10.00 12 1041
50
S'.00 12 180
50
5.00 12
86
50
12
34
80
12 600
S'O
5.00 12 281
3.00 . 12
69
S'O
50 10.00 12 106
50
18 406
50
12
9S'
S'O
12
73
100
12 221
75 10.00 12 1152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

440

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod;e

No.

'$7 Rose's Bar .................... S9

S'S North Star .................... 91
S'9 St. Helena .................... 93
60 Henry Clay .................. 9S'
61 Hornitos ·············-···-·· 9S
62 Yosemite ...................... 99
63 Clay --·-····--·-···--101
64 Oroville --·-···-·········103
6S' Lexington -··-··-·········104
66 Arcata --·-·-·-·-··--106
67 Pajaro --···-···---110
6S Chico -·-·----111
69 Summit ·--·-----112
70 Eden --·--------113
71 Concord ---····-117
72 Fidelity -·--·---120
73 Alamo -·---··--122
74 Sotoyome -···-·-·-·---123
7S' Table Mountain ..........124
76 La Fayette -···•·-·-·---126
77 Hermann -···-····-·······127
7S Visalia --·---····-····12S
79 Nicolaus ·--···········-·129
so Woodbridge _____131
Sl Sincerity--.· -·-132
S2 Vacaville ·---······134
S3 Valley ·-·-·---··-13'
S4 Pacific ····-·····--·-··--··U6
SS' Crockett ---··-····-····-139
S6 Curtis - - - - - ····---140
S7 Grafton --·····--141
SS Franklin --·····-·--14S
S9 Oriental -··-···-·---14-4
90 Vitruvius -·-·-·---14f
91 Abell ----··-··--146
92 Eel River -··-···-·-·-··147
93 Lassen --··-··-·---149
94 Molino ____;..___ uo
9S' Woodland ______ lS'6
96 Keystone -·-·-·--·--161
97 Harmony ---····---164
9S Excelsior --······--··166
99 Alameda -···-·---····167
100 Redwood City ····--···-168
101 Mission ·--·-··--·-·--169
102 Elk Grove _____173
103 Drytown _ _ _ _ _174
104 Antioch
_l7S'
lOS' Phoenix - - · - - - 1 7 S
106 Mendocino --···----179
107 Petaluma -------180
lOS Russian River -·--··--181
109 Arbuckle ·-·····----182
110 Clear Lake ·---·- ·--183
111 Sierra Valley ____184
112 Claiborne -·····-·---18f
113 Evening Star ·--··--186
114 Keith ·---------187
11 f Oakland ------·-·188

Location

Charter
luued

Smartville .............. 1SS'6
Fort Jones .............. 1SS'6
St. Helena ·-··········· 1SS'6
Sutter Creek .......... 1SS'6
Hornitos ................ 1SS'6
Merced .................. 1SS'6
Dutch Flat .............. 1SS'6
Oroville .................. 1SS'6
El Monte·······-···- 1SS'6
Arcata -···········--·· 1SS'7
Watsonville -········· 1SS'7
Chico ······-···-······· 1SS'7
Knight's Ferry ........ 1SS'7
San Leandro .........• 1SS'7
Sacramento
1SS'7
San Francisco -··- lSS'S
Walnut Creek ·-·-· lSS'S
lSS'S
Healdsburg
Paradise .:................ lSS'S
Sebastopol .............. lSS'S
San Francisco ........ lSS'S
Visalia .................... 18S'9
Wheatland
18S'9
Woodbridge .......... 1SS'9
Greenville -········-· 18S'9
Vacaville -········-··· 1SS'9
Linden -··············-· 1S60
San Francisco ........ 1S60
San Francisco ........ 1860
Cloverdale -···-- 1S60
Knights Landing •... 1S60
Courtland .............. 1861
San Francisco ........ 1S61
Bloomfield .............. l S61
Ukiah _ ............... 1861
Fortuna .................. 1861
Susanville .............. 1862
Tehama .................. 1862
Woodland -·····-···· 1863
Milton ·-···-····..····· 1S63
Sierra City ······-·-· l S64
San Francisco ........ 1864
Centerville .............. 1S64
Redwood City ........ 1864
San Francisco ·-··- 1864
Elk Grove -·-········· 186S'
Plymouth -·······-· 186f
Antioch -·---······· 1S6S'
San Bernardino .....• 1866
Mendocino ............ 1866
Petaluma ................ 1866
Windsor -····-······· l S66
Arbuckle ................ 1867
Lower Lake ............ 1867
Sierraville ·-····-··- 1867
Point Arena .......... 1867
Etna Mills .............. 1S67
Gilroy -·-····-····- l S68
Oakland -··-········· 186S

441

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

F..1

AlllL
M•m·
FH1 Due1 bers

3S'
S'O
S' .00 12
64
S'O
S'.00 12
S'O
1.00 1S' 122
7S
60
12
91
S'O 10.00 12
S'O
12 40S
91
S'O
12
S'O
S'.00 12 314
100
1.00 12 464
rn·
12 241
7S'
1S' 346
75 10.00 12 426
.JS'
S'O
S'.00 12
7S'
12 3S2
7S' 10.00 12 Hl
100 1S'.00 1S' HS'
7S' ........ 12 3S'2
7S'
S'.00 12 1S7
SO
1.00 12 129
S'O
12 20S'
7S' 10.00 12 .llO
7S'
1S' S'20
S'O
S' .00 12 102
S'O
12 16S
92
100
S'.00 12
S'O
12 179
S9
S'O 12.00 12
100 20.00 12 601
7S' 2S'.OO 12 S'92
74
S'O
S'.00 12
97
S'O
5.00 12
7S'
S'.00 18 13S'
100 2S'.OO 12 39S'
S'O
1.00, 12 117
S'O
12 260
S'O
12 219
60
12 206
S'O
1.00 12 169
S'O
12 2S'3
26
S'O
2.S'O 12
17
S'O
S' .00 12
7S' 20.00 12 S'l8
S'O
S'.00 12 lS'S'
100
1.00 18 S'30
100
S'.00 12 69S'
S'O 10.00 12 144
3S
S'O
S'.00 12
S'O
S'.00 12 292
7S'
S'.00 12 640
S'O
S' .00 12 126
SO
12 326
7S'
S' .00 12 · 113
83
S'O
1.00 12
H
S'O 10.00 12
42
S'O
12
S'6
S'O · S' .00 12
.JS'
S'O
12
S'O
2.00 12 170
7S'
1.00 12 932

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lodi!• ·

No.

ll6 Northern Light ·-··---190
117 Marin -·---····----191
llS Santa Barbara -·--192
ll9 Ferndale -----··-··193
120 Mountain Vir:w _ ......... 194
121 Buckeye ····--··-·····--19f
122 San Simeon ---·-·-··-196
123 Wilmington --··-·---198
124 Hartley -·--···---199
l2S' Truckee --------200
126 Silveyville --··---201
127 Pentalpha ----...........202
12S Confidence _ .................203
129 Salinas -·-··-·-·--204
130 Olivet - - - - - - - 2 0 f
131 Stanislaus ·-·--·---206
132 Anaheim · - - - - 2 0 7
133 Rio Vista ---··-···-208
134 King David's ______209
13S' Friendship ··-···-···-··--210
136 San Benito --·-··--211
137 So. San Francisco ........212
138 San Buenaventura ...- ..214
139 Oak Grove -------21S'
140 Doric ---·--···--216
141 Monterey - · - -·__,ll7
142 Mosaic -···----·--···218
143 Speran~ ltaliana ..........119
144 Downey -···-····-··-····220
14S' Inyo ----····-221
146 Roseville -···-·-···-··222
147 Bakersfield --···-···--224
148 Brooklvn -·--··-·······22'
149 San Mateo -·-··--···- 226
1S'O .Athena -····-·····-···--218
1S'1 Solano -·--·······--229
1S'2 North Butte -----·230
1S'3 Covelo - - - - - - 2 3 1
lS'-4 Janesville ----··-·-····232
1H Calistoga -----·---233
1S'6 Hope ------····--234
1S'7 Sfltrise Valley .........._23f
1S'S H 's Ferry ..............-.236
1S'9 Guadalupe ·-····-····-···237
160 Colusa ····---··-····-····l-40
161 Santa Ana -·-··-·····-·-241
162 Magnolia ---····-··--242
163 Eucalyptus --·······-··.;_243
164 Alcatraz -··········-·········24-4
16S' Laurel -··········--···--24f
166 Pomona ........................246
167 Fresno ···----·- ·-··247
16S Alturas ·---·······-·;..248
169 Adin - ·- ·--·-······--2f0
170 Landmark -·-·····-·---2f3
171 Reading ·---···-···-·2f4
172 Wdcome ····-····-·----2ff
173 Lodi ········-·--·-··--2f6
174 Penrhyn ---·--···---2'8

location

Charter
IAUed

Mi1lville ......... _____ ls6s
San Rafael .............. 1S6S
Santa Barbara ........ l S6S
Ferndale ................ 1S69
Mountain View ...... 1S69
Winters ·-·········-··· l S69
Cambria ········-········ l S69
Wilmington ............ 1S69
Lakeport ................ l S69
Truckee .................. 1869
Dixon ............·-···· 1S69
Los Angdea .......... l S69
Castroville .............. l S69
Salinas .................... l S69
Corning ·-··········-··· 1S70
Modesto ................ 1S70
Anaheim ···-······-··· 1S70
Rio Vista·····---··· 1S70
San Luis Obispo .... l S70
San Jose ................ 1S71
Hollister ................ 1S71
San Francisco .......• 1S71
Ventura ·-·············· 1S71
Alameda ................ 1S71
San Francisco ........ 1S71
Monterey ................ 1S71
Livermore .............. 1S72
San Francisco -····· 1S72
Downey .................. 1S72
Independence ·-····· l S72
RoseVJ1le ................ 1912
Bakersfidd ·-·····-···· 1S73
East Oakland ........ 1S73
San Mateo .............. 1S73
Davis ...................... 1S73
Vallejo .................. 1S73
Gridley -··--·········· 1S73
Covelo .................. 1S74
Janesville ···-·······-·· 1S74
Calistoga ................ 1S74
Beckwourth -········· 1S74
Cedarville .............. 1874
Newman ................ 1S74
Santa Maria .....•.....• 1S74
Colusa ······-··········- 1S7S'
Santa Ana ·········-··· 1S76
Santa Barbara ........ 1S76
Hayward ................ 1S76
West Oakland ........ 1S77
Willows .................. 1S77
Pomona .................. 1877
Fresno .................... 1S7S
Alturas .................. 1S78
Adin ·······-····-······· 1S7S
Esparto .................. 1S79
Redding ................ 1S79
Lemoore ................ 1S79
Lodi ........................ l S79
Penrhyn ................ l SSO

Fees

Aflll.

F-

S'O
S'.00
100 10.00
. ?S'
S'O
7S'
7S'
S'.00
S'O
so
S'O
3.00
60
S'.00
60
S'.00
100 20.00
7S'
7S'
S'O
7S'
S'O
1.00
7S'
so
1.00
7S'
S'.00
S'O
1.00
7S' 10.00
7S'
7S'
1.00
100 10.00
7S'
S'O 10.00
100
100
S'O
S'.00
S'O
2.S'O
100
7S'
100

Due1

12
12
1S'
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
lS'

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
lS

S'O

12

7'f 10.00
S'O
S'O
7S'
1.00
S'O
S'.00
S'O 10.00
S'O
1.00
S'O 10.00
7S' 10.00
S'O 10.00
7S'
1.00
7S'
S'O
7f 10.00
S'O
S'.00
S'O
2.00
so
3.00
S'O
1.00
S'O
2.00
S'O
1.00
S'O
S'.00
7S'
S'O
S'O
3.00

12
12

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
lS'

Members

89
S'24
324
102
319
13S'
110
S'29

233
103
H2
S'64
48
477
107
S'60
402
146
414
703
1S'2
261
3S6
629
S'll
2S'3
171
330
484
lS'S
323
747
S'9S
427
146
601
lSO
64
129
113
12S'
73
1S'O
132
149
S'66
3S'f
426
624
222
3SS'

12
12
12
12
12 640
12 162
1S'
87
12 110
12 197
12 189
12 3S'9
12 1S'3

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod;e

No.

17 S' Evergreen •.••.•...........•••2f9
176 King Solomon's ·-·······-260
177 Tuscan -·--······-·---261
178 Lompoc ·-··················-262
179 Hesperian .....•...........-264
180 Orland ···················-···-26'1
181 North East •...................266
182 Galt -············-······-·267
183 Durant -·····-······-·······268
184 Olive Branch .•..............269
18S' Snow Mountain ··-·········271
186 Pasadena .....•...........•_..272
187 Anchor --····················-273
188 Arroyo ·-···················-274
189 Oakdale ·······-·········-··-27'1
190 Selma ·······-····-··········;..'J.77
191 Southern California ...... 278
192 Hanford -···-···-·····--279
193 Madera -···················---280
194 Mount Shasta ..............281
19S' Callayomi ·-···················282
196 South West ·-···············283
197 San Miguel ·-···············28'1
198 Paso Robles •...............••286
199 Winnedumah ·········-·····287
200 Maxwell -······················288
201 Elsinore - ·····················289
202 East Gate ·-·················-290
203 Santa Paula .................• 291
204 Los Gatos ····-················292
20S' Orange Grove ............_293
206 Traver ·--·--···············294
207 Mt. Jackson ·-············-·291
208 Silver Gate -················-296
209 Dunsmuir ....................-297
210 Liberty -·····················-299
211 Redlands ·-···················300
212 Ontario -··············-···-301
213 Santa Lucia .................•302
214 Porterville •.................-3.03
21 S' Reedley -···················-304
216 &usa -······················30'1
217 Ashlar -·······················306
218 Santa Monica ···-·········-307
219 Monrovia ········-············308
220 Ddano -·-···················-309
221 Sisson --·-····-···········..310
222 Los Banos -···············-312
223 Tehachafi ··············-····313
224 Temesca -··············---314
22S' Norwalk --··················31S'
226 Sanger ·-··--·············-316
227 Fallbrook ·······-··········-.317
228 Emmanuel ·····•·······---318
229 Hollenbeck ·············--319
230 South Gate -············---320
231 Alisal ··----···········--·321
232 Alhambra -·············· -322
233 Whittier •••.....................323

Location

Charter
Issued

Riverside •..............• 1880
San Francisco ........ 1880
Williams •............... 1880
Lompoc ..•............... 1881
Santa Maria •..........• 1882
Orland ··-·············· 1882
Fort Bidwell .......... 1882
Galt ··-··········-······· 1883
Berkeley ·-············· 1883
Tulare ·-················· 1883
Stony Ford •........... 1884
Pasadena -············· 1884
Compton -·············· 1884
Arroyo Grande ...... 1884
Oakdale .................. 1884
Selma ...................... 188S'
Los Angdes .......... 188S'
Hanford ·-············· 188S'
Madera -················ 188S'
Anderson .............. 1886
Middletown ............ 1887
National City
1887
San Miguel ............ 1887
Paso Robles ............ 1887
Bishop ·-················· 1887
Maxwell •............... 1888
Elsinore -················ 1888
Los Angeles .......... 1888
Santa Paula ............ 1888
Los Gatos .............. 1888
Orange .................. 1889
Kingsburg .............. 1889
Guerneville ............ 1889
San Diego .............. 1889
Dunsmuir •............. 1889
Santa Clara ............ 1890
Redlands •............... 1890
Ontario .................. 1890
Kings' City ............ 1890
Porterville •............. 1890
Reedley .................. 1891
&usa ·--··············· 1891
Colton .................... 1891
Santa Monica ·-····· 1891
Monrovia .............. 1891
Ddano .................. 1892
Mount Shasta ........ 1892
Los Banos -············ 1892
Tehachapi .............. 1892
Corona .................. 1893
Norwalk ...............• 1893
Sanger .................... 1893
Fallbrook ................ 1893
Los Angeles .......... 1894
Alhambra .............. 1894
Whittier ................ 189S'
Los Angeles .......... 1894
Pleasanton ·-··········· 1894
Biggs -···'-············· 1893

443

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fees

7S'
7S'

. LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

Affll.
Mem·
FHs Dues bers

12 608
12 49S'
S'O
12
80
S'O
1.00 12 170
7S'
12 332
S'O
2.00 12 160
S'O
S'.00 12
S'3
S'O
S'.00 12
69
80
S'.00 12 S'66
7S'
lS' 286
7S'
1.00 12
34
7S' ........ 12 S'36
12S' ........ ' 12 S'08
S'O
6.00 12 132
7S'
1.00 12 166
80 12.00 12 209
7S'
12 S'lS'
S'O
12 208
S'O
3.00 12 240
S'O
12
71
S'O
S'.00 . 12
S'9
7S'
1.00 12 369
S'O 10.00 12
S'S'
7S'
3.00 12 223
S'O
lS' 170
7S'
12
64
7S'
12 1S'8
7S' 10.00 12 849
S'O
lS' 318
S'O
12 273
7S'
1.00 12 24S'
S'O
12 150
S'C>
12 131
80
12 1097
S'O
12 29S'
7S'
12 301
7S'
12 426
S'O
12 337
7S'
lS' 148
S'O
12 4S'7
7S'
12 lS'S'
7S' 10.00 12 226
S'S'
12 258
12 380
80
7S'
12 287
10(}
12 223
50
2.C>O 12 108
7S'
12 148
7S'
1.00 12 186
S'O
2.00 12 190
7S'
12 22S'
7S'
12 291
S'S'
S'.00 12 111
S'O
S'.00 12
79
7S' 10.00 12 1099
7S' 2S'.OO 12 678
S'O
12 133
7S'
12 614
7S'
12 623

Lod;e

lS'.00

•

No.

234 Corona -····-··············-324
23'1 Consuelo --············--32'1
236 Needles -··-···········--326
237 Long Beach --···-·······-327
238 Redondo -······--··········328
239 Vallee de France ..........329
240 Kilauea ··-·--·-··············330
241 Pacific Grove -···········-331
242 San Pedro -···············-332
243 Alta -····-··················--U3
244 Covina -······················.334
24S' West Gate ·······-········-33'1
246 Fruitvale -···············--336
247 Carquinez -············-·--337
248 San Jacinto ...............•..338
249 Fullerton ··-·············-···339
2S'O Oxnard ········-···············341
2S'l San Fernando •............. 343
2 S'2 Starr King -··············-344
2S'3 Brentwood ••...............•••34'1
2S'4 Palo Alto --···········-~346
2S'S' McKinley --············-347
2S'6 San Bernardino ............348
2S'7 Sequoia -····-············--349
2S'8 Palestine --···-········-··-3S'l
2 S'9 Sunset -····················-3 '12
260 Pinole -······················--3'13
261 Presidio ·-··-············-3'14
262 Hollywood -················-3'J'J
263 Mill Valley ·-···············-3S'6
264 Buena Park •.................3 '17
26S' Golden State -·············3S'8
266 Loyalton ·---·············-3 '19
267 San Francisco ..............-360
268 Fort Bragg -···············-361
269 Charity --····-·············-362
270 Berkeley _.:.·-············--363
271 Willits ····-·-···············-36'1
272 Las Palmas ·-····-····-·····366
273 South Pasadena ..........•.367
274 Unity ·--··-···-············-368
27S' Ocean Park -....·-····--369
276 Amity ··-········--·--370
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie 371
278 Gardena -·-·-···-·····-372
279 West Los Angeles •....... 373
280 Jewd ·····--·············374
281 Richmond ··-··-·········-37'1
282 Francis Drake .............•376
283 Artesia ·--·-··············--377
284 Mizpah --····················-378
28S' Fillmore ·····--············379
286 Huntington Beach ........ 380
287 Oceanside -···-····-·····381
288 Highland Park •..........•..382
289 Orosi -·-················-·383
290 El Centrl) ·-···················384
291 Dinuba ····················-·-·38'1
292 Coalinga -·······-··········-387

Location

Charter
Issued

Pasadena ..............•• 189S'
Escondido .............. 189S'
Needles .................. 1896
Long Beach ............ 1896
Redondo •............... 1897
Los Angeles
1897
Hilo, T. H ............. 1897
Pacific Grove
1897
San Pedro .............. 1897
Bridgeport .............. 1897
Covina .................... 1898
Los Angdes .......... 1899
Oakland ···-··········· 1899
Crockett .•.............. 1899
San Jacinto ···-······· 1899
Fullerton ..••.•..........-1900
Oxnard .................. 1901
San Fernando .......... 1902
San Francisco
1902
Brentwood .............. 1902
Palo Alto .............. 1902
Richmond .............. 1902
San Bernardino ...... 1902
Oakland ·········-····· 1902
Los Angeles .......... 1903
Los Angeles .......... 1903
Pinole .................... 1903
San Francisco ........ 1903
Hollywood · ............ 1903
Mill Valley ·-···········1903
Buena Park •........... 1903
Los Angeles .......... 1904
Loyalton ·-············· 1904
San Francisco
1904
Fort Bragg .............. 1904
Campbell -·············· 1904
Berkeley -············· 1904
Willits ·-················· 190S'
Fresno ·-·-·············· 190S'
South Pasadena ...... 190S'
Glendale ................ 190S'
Ocean Park ............ 190S'
San Francisco ........ 190S'
Gardena ................ 1906
San Francisco
1906
Honolulu, T. H ..... 190S'
Los Angeles ···-····· 1906
San Francisco
1906
So. San Francisco .. 1906
Artesia .................... 1906
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1906
Fillmore ················- 1906
Huntington Beach.. 1906
Oceanside .............• 1906
Los Angeles .......... 1907
Orosi ···-················· 1907
El Centro .............. 1907
Dinuba .................. 1907
Coalinga •.......•.....•. 1907

Feas

Affll.
Mem·
Fees Dues bers

100
S'O

7S'
100
100
100
12S'
7S'
80
S'3
S'O
12S'
12S'
S'O

1.00
2S'.OO
12.00
2S'.OO
S'.00
2S'.OO

S'O

S'O
7S'
7S'
100

1.00
10.00

S'O .

100
7S'
7S'
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
100
100
80
30
7S'

S'.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
2S'.00
20.00
10.00

S'O

100
7S'

S'.00

S'O

7S'
S'O
80
7S'
100
80
100
12S'
80
7S'
100
100
100

S'.00
1.00
S'.00
10.00
2S'.OO
10.00
S'.00
3.00
10.00
2S'.OO
S'.00

S'O

100
S'O

2S'.OO
1.00

S'O

7S'
7S'
S'O

7S'
S'O
100

S'.00

12 480
12 23S'
12 348
12 S'80
12 442
12 122
12 241
12 228
12 S'13
12
79
12 299
lS' 974
12 910
12 190
12
96
12 378
12 3S'9
12 465
12 S'36
12 129
12 6S'S'
12 462
12 691
12 1048
12 S'94
lS' 406
12 177
12 S'43
12 1119
1 S' 404
12 201
12 876
12
88
12 31S'
12 126
12 137
12 6S'3
12 148
12 932
12 S'72
12 S'90
12 480
12 · 471
12 631
12 293
12 386
12 180
12 S'47
12 306
12 147
12 43S'
1 S' 22S'
12 310
12 294
12 S'74
1S' 133
12 378
12 268
12 340

445

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod;•

No.

location

Chart•
luu9d

.Miii.

Fe8I

Fe8I

Duu

M•m·

100 10.00 12 717
293 Parnassus ·-···-·---··-388 San Francisco .......• 1907
12 717
12S'
294 Palos Verdes -····-··-389 Long Beach···-·····-· 1907
10.00 12 11 'i
7S'
Imperial
•...•........•.•
190S
29S' Imperial -···-·-·-··;..390
'i.00 12
B'i
296 East Bdt ______391 Tuolumne --······-··· 190S
S'O
100 'i0.00 12 976
297 West Lake ---···-·--392 Los Angeles ·-······· 190S
100 20.00 12 4S6
29S Balder ---···--·-393 San Francisco ........ 190S
100 10.00 12 606
299 University --··-·"."__394 Los Angeles .........• 190S
lS' 327
so
300 Turlock - - · - - · 3 9 f Turlock -·-'·····-····· 190S
1.00 12 4'i0
7'i
301 Apollo --··-··-····--···396 Alameda ................ 190S
12 961
100
302 Rising l.Jght ·--········-·397 Huntington Park.. 190S
'i.00 12 443
100
303 Fraternity ····-····.;.___399 San Jose ·-············· 190S
lS 603
100
304 Burlingame -······-400 Burlingame ·-········· 190S
'i .00 12 'i49
7'$
Oakland
·-··········-··
1909
30S' Bay View·-····-····-·-·······401
l'i 192
7'i
306 Brawley ·--·--·-402 Brawley ·····--······-··· 1909
so 2'i.OO 12 799
307 Yerba Buena ______403 Oakland ······-····-··· 1909
12 13'i
so
30S Glendora -··---·--··'404 Glendora ................ 1909
12 743
lO'i
Loa
.Angeles
..........
1909
309 Moneta ------···..Of
'i.00 12 603
100
310 Burbank -·····--····--··406 Burbank ··············- 1909
3.00 12 440
100
311 La Mesa ~··--·--·-···'40'7 La Mesa-··-······-····· 1910
12 133
7'i
312 Sierra Madre ··-····---.COS Sierra Madre .......... 1910
12S' 10.00 12 346
· 313 Honolulu ---··-··-·-409 Honolulu, T. H ..... 1910
'i.00 12 362
7'i
314 Charter Rock ·-····-·····-410 Berkeley ·······-······· 1910
so 3.00 12 146
Perris ······-····-······· 1910
31 S' Perris ---····--··.:.•11
S'.00 12 163
'iO
316 Calexico -·····-·-······-···•12 Calexico ................ 191 o
12 374
7S'
Los
Angeles
............
1910
317 Arlington -····--·-··-····-·.f14
S'.00 12 3Sl
7'i
Los
Angeles
•.•.........
1910
31S Silver Trowel ·-···-·······•lS'
12 213
'iO
319 Lindsay -·-·-·-··-·-'416 Lindsay .................• 1910
12 376
7S'
Clovis
...•................
1910
320 Clovis - - · - · -- - -'417
7'$ 2'i.OO 12 473
Los
Angeles
···-···1910
321 Elysian --···-···--'418
3.00 12 192
'iO
322 Upland ·-······-·-······-'419 Upland ·············-··· 1911
12
S7
7'$
323 Kerman --··-·-·-··-·-420 Kerman ·-·······-······· 1911
12S' 2'i.OO 12 6'i'i
324 Inglewood --·--···-421 Inglewood ·-·······-··· 1911
12 461
100
32S' Eagle Rock -······-·-···'422 Eagle Rock ·-········· 1911
7S' 2'i.OO 12 323
.Angdes
......•.....
1912
Los
326 York
12 194
'iO
327 Exeter --·-····-·--'42.f Exeter ·-················- 1912
12 123
7'i
Holtville
................
1912
32S Holtville
12 473
S'O
3 29 Midway •••...................--426 Taft ......•...•............• 1912
12 119
'iO
330 Chino Valley -·····--·-·•27 Chino ------·-···---·- 1912
12 167
'iS'
San
Dimas
--······--····
1912
3 31 San Dimas -·····--·-···-·428
1.00 12 263
7'i
Pittsburg
................
1912
332 Pittsburg - - ······--429
12 lOS'
'iO
3 3 3 McCloud -·-········---'430 McOoud -·-···--~ 1912
12 4S2
7'i
334 Alpha --··-·---431 Richmond ·······-···· 1912
12
60
S'O
Hammonton
1913
33S' Hammonton -····--······.f33
12 lSO
fO
336 Maricopa ---··-··-·--'43.f Maricopa ··--··········- 1913
12 4S6
100
337 Fairmount -···-···---··43f San Francisco -······ 1913
12 111
S'O
33S Claremone ···---···-·-···436 Claremont ·-··········· 1913
6.00 12 227
60
Lancaster ................ 1913
339 Lancaster
'iS
7S' 10.00 12
340 Acacia -··-·-··-··-'438 Los Angeles ·····-··· 1913
12 149
'iO
Manteca
·-·············
1913
341 Tyrian ·-·-····..:.-'439
12 . 3'i9
7S'
342 Standard ----··-'4'40 Oakland ·····-········· 1914
12 339
7S'
343 Coronado _ _,________-441
Coronado ······-······ 1914
12 1144
so
San
Diego
..............
1914
344 Blackmer ···--··-~-----442
Schofield
HS' Schofidd -··--···----~'443
S'.00 12 249
100
Barracks, T. H ... 1914
12 114
S'O
346 Carpinteria -----···-.f.f-4 Carpinteria ............ 1914
12S' 2S'.00 12 H'i
347 Wilshire --···-····-···--···.f4f Los Angeles •......... 1914
1.00 12 141
S'O
HS La Puente -·--······-·..-'446 Puente ·-················· 1914
lS' 3S'7
so
Torrance
·-·············
1914
349 Torrance -·······---'44'
12 276
7S'
Concord
·--···········
1914
3S'O Mt. Diablo ····-··---#8

--·-··--·-•23

--···-·-·•2f

-·--···----•37

Lod;e

No•

location

Chartw
l11119CI

San Francisco ······- 1914
-·---·-----'449 Van
Nuys ·····-··-··· 1914
-·--•fl Montebello
---··-··· 1914

berl

3'fl Park
3'i2 Van Nuys - - · - - • f O
3'i3 Montebello
3H San Pasqual ···-·····--•fl
3'i S' Bethlehem
3'i6 Crocker ···-··-···---•.ff4
3'i7 Golden West
3'1'8 Ramona
H9 Henry S. 0rJlle....•.•- .•A'iS
360 Riverbank -····-·---'4f9
361 Mount Oao --·--·-·-460
362 Argonaut ·-············-··'461
363 Paul Revere -·-····-·'462
364 Morgan Hill ··-·-····-·'463
36S' Alta Vista ·---···-·---'46.f
366 Center --···-·---.f6f
367 Libertas - - - - - ' 4 6 6
36S Culver City --··-·--···•67
369 Rockridge ··--·--·-·····.f6B
370 Yorba Linda ----·····'469
371 Lincoln -··------'470
372 Delta -····-···-·--'471
373 Maui -·-·--·
'472
. 374 Blythe ·-·-·-·---473
37'$ Victory · - · - - -••-4'7.f
376 America ·····-·----'4'1f
377 Coachella --··--··--'476
37S Temblor
379 Thousand Oaks -··----'47S
380 Golden Rule ______.f79
3Sl Pdlowship ···--·-·--•so
3S2 Mt. Da'Yidson ··'···--•Bl
3S3 Clarence P. Smith ···--·•B2
3S4 Bell-··
._'483
3S 'i Albert Pike -·---'4B.f
386 Chowchilla - - - • B f
3B7 Caledonia -··---·······•B6
3SS Vallejo ·----···-'487
3S9
·······--··-·-·•88
390 Patterson
East Bay _______
.fB9

Pasadena -····--·-·· 1914
San Francisco ........ 19 lS'
Daly City •..••...•..... 191 'i
San Francisco ........ 191S'
Monterey Park •..... 191'i
Los Angeles ·-······ 191'i
Riverbank .............. 191S'
Tracy ·--··-·····-······ 1916
San Francisco .......• 1916
San Francisco ........ 1916
Morgan Hill ·····-··· 1916
San Francisco ..•..... 1916
Fresno ···-······-······· 1916
Bakersfield-··········· 1917
Culver City •••........• 1917
Oakland ···········-··· 1917
Yorba Linda ··-·····- 191S
San Francisco ·-····· 191S
Stockton ·-··-·-······ 191S
Kahului, T. H·-·-· 191S
Blythe ·-················· 1919
San Francisco -···- 1919
Los Angeles -······· 1920
Coachdla -··-········· 1920
Pdlowa ·······-·-······ 1920
Berkeley -···--······· 1920
San Jose -···-·········· 1920
Oakland - ·····-······· 1920
San Francisco ·-···- 1920
Los .Angeles ·-······· 1920
Bell --····--··· 1920
Los Angdea ··---··· 1920
Chowchilla ............ 1920
Bakersfield ······-·-··· 1920
Vallejo ------···· 1920
Patterson ·----·-····· 1920
South Berkeley •....• 1920
391
Corcoran
Corcoran -·········-··· 1920
392 Woodstock _____'491
Alameda -····--···- 1920
393 Garvanza --·---'492 Los Angeles ·-····- 1920
394 .Atascadero - - - ·__493 .Atascadero ·····--·- 1920
39'i Acom - - - - - - ' 4 9 . f Oakland ---·-······· 1920
396 Lebanon
.f9f San Prancieco -······ 1921
397 Premont
'497 Oakland -·-····- 1921
39S Stockton -····-·---498 Stockton ·--····-····· 1921
399 Capital City
••'499 Sacramento - - - - 1921
400 Roosevelt ·-···--·--fOO San Francisco ·-····· 1921
401 Westwood -·····--fOl Westwood ·-··-······· 1921
402 Harbor -·--·----fOl Richmond ·-·······-·· 1921
403 Point
03 Richmond -·····-· 1921
404 Seaside -·--·------fO.f . Long Beach-········· 1921
40S' Silver Cord _ _ _ _ fO-f Santa Ana -····-···- 1921
406 Mount Olive _____f06 Loe .Angdes -·-····-· 1921
407 El Segundo
f07
El Segundo -····-- 1921
40S Joppa -·-···-·-----fOB San Joaquin ·-······· 1921
409 Benjamin Franklin ___f09 Loe .Anrelee - - - 1921

·····--·--•n
-·-··-·•ff

-··-··----•f7

I
\

-------•77

---·--•90

fMs

7'i

so

100
7'i
100
7'i
7'i
7S'
7'i
S'O

so
so

100
'iO
7'i

so

100
100
12'i
S'O
100

so

SS

7'i
100
7'i
7'i

Affll,

Fea1

M•mb9n

10.00 12
12
10.00 12
12
12
10.00 12
10.00 12
12
12
12
6.00 12
10.00 12
10.00 12
1.00 12
lS'
12
12
lS'
10.00 12
12
10.00 l'i
12
12
S'.00 12
2'i.OO 12

660
12B
2S'i
424
HS
141
272
474
'i20
309
4H
143
343
45S'
2'i3
113
2SS'

12

S'04

S'O

7'i
S'.00
7S'
7'i
1.00
100 10.00
7S'
7S'
7'i
100
'i.00
100
7'i 10.00
'iO
2.00
7'i 10.00
7'$
7'i
1.00
7'i
7S'
so 10.00
100 10.00
100 10.00

so

7'i
7'i
S'O
7'i
7'i
100
7S'
12'i
S'O
S'O
100

Duu

10.00
'$.00
10.00

1.00
2'i.OO
'i.00

4S6
S'S2
497
449
317
3S4
'i62
44S

12 170
lS' 14S
lS' 464
12 'i67
12 317
lS 3S9
lS' 369
12 'i67
12 2'i2
12 136
12 446
12 3S7
12 107
12 3SO
12 121
12 367
12 273
12 100
12 'i49
lS' 3S'i
12 477
12 1S7
12 42S
12 lSS
12 265
12 'ilS'
12 239
12 4S4
12 477
12 1008
12 290
12
71
12 3.f.f

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod9e

Ho.

Location

Charter
Issued

447

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

446

Fees

MemAflll.
FHs Dues bers

Cupertino .............• 1921
75
12 1 S'2
410 Cupertino ·················-·-HO Sunnyvale .............• 1921
7S'
S' .00 12 288
411 Sunnyvale ·-·················fll
404
·········-··········· 1921
12S'
12
412 Palms ----···················fl2 Palms
Los Angeles ............ 1921
100
S'.00 12 S'08
413 Cahuenga ...................... 513
San Francisco ........ 1922
100
S'.00 12 381
414 Argonne -·····-·············-'14
Los Angeles .......... 1922
7S'
12 S'OS'
41S' Vermont Square ........-HS'
Taft ........•............... 1922
S'O
12 298
416 Taft ·-···--··-····-·······-f16
San Francisco ........ 1922
80 10.00 1 S' 227
417 Mount Vernon ..........-'17
La Jolla .................. 1922
80
12 2S'2
418 La Jolla ···-···-···············fl8 Los Angeles .......... 1922
7S'
12 382
419 Euclid ·············-·········-H9 Los Angeles
1922
125
1.00 1 S' 68S'
4 20 Ionic ---·······-·············no
Piedmont ...............• 1922
80
S' .00 12 27S'
421 Piedmont •....................•f21
Los Angeles .......... 1922
100
12 319
422 Sunrise -···················---'22
7S'
12 3S'3
423 BellBower ····-···············f23 BellBower ·-··········· 1922
147
100
1S'
424 Catalina Island .........._f24 Avalon -··············· 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
100 10.00 12 456
42S' George Washington ....f2f
San Francisco ........ 1922
100
12 342
426 Bay City ······-·····-··---'26
Los Angeles
1922
100
12 332
427 Covenant ·-·-···········--fl7
7S'
S'.00 12 437
428 Beverly Hills ................ ns Beverly Hills·····-··· 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
12S'
12 424
429 Loyalty ·-···-··················'29
490
Fresno
-··················
1922
80
12
430 Sun Garden ···············--f30
San Francisco ........ 1922
7S'
S'.00 12 1S'8
431 Alexandria ················-·f31
94
Ceres ·····-···-·········· 1922
70
12 231
432 Smyrna ·············-······--f32 Fullerton
................ 1922
S'O
12
433 Azure ·-····-··············--f33
San Francisco ........ 1922
80 10.00 12 164
434 Forest Hill ·············-·····f34 Los Angeles .......... 1922
7S'
1.00 12 222
435 Alexander Hamilton .... 535
San
Francisco
........
1922
100
10.00
12 177
436 Seal Rock ....•.............•_536
Los Angeles •......... 1922
100
12 69S'
437 Utopia -···················-f37 Los Angeles
1922
100
12 332
438 Ascot ---···········-······:f38 Monterey Park ...... 1922
7S'
12 224
439 Belvedere ·--················-f39
Long
Beach
............
1923
80
12 182
440 Queen Beach ·-····-···---f40
7S'
S'.00 12 327
441 Henry Morse Stephens 541 Berkeley_ -~---··········· 1923
North Hollywood .. 1923
12S'
S'.00 12 630
442 Lankershim ·-············-·H2
Long
Beach·-·········
1923
100
12 464
443 Signal ..•........••....... ~----f43
637
Glendale
·-····-·······
1923
100
12 186
444 Glendale ·---~----····-······-f44
San
Francisco
........
1923
100
f.00
12
44S' Jonathan •.•...••...........-HS'
San Gabriel ·-········· 1923
7S'
12 354
446 San Gabriel -·-···········-f46
Arcadia •................. 1923
7S'
12 31S'
447 Arcadia ·-····-············--f47
237
·-················· 1923
7S'
1 S'
448 Triangle --·····-··········-HS Venice
San Francisco
1923
100 10.00 1 S' 348
449 Justice -·····················-·f49 San Francisco ........ 1923
100 2S'.OO 12 231
4S'O Seaport ......:.·-············-·ffO
Oakland -············· 1923
7S'
S'.00 12 265
4S'l Lakeshore -············--_,.ffl
224
····-·-··········· 1923
S'O
12
4S'2 Semper Vireos ·-······--ff2 Eureka
80
S'.00 12 3S'2
4S'3 Educator .••....•.............. 554 San Francisco ........ 1923
97
Weed ·····-············ 1923
S'S'
2.00 12 295
454 White Pine -··········--fff
San Anselmo .......... 1923
100
li
4S'S' Fairfax ·············-·······-f.f 6
Hermosa Beach ...... 1923
7S'
12 291
4S'6 Hermosa '-·················-·"'
San
Pedro
•.............
1923
80
12 363
4S'7 Point Firmin ................ff8 '
Los Angeles .........• 1923
100
12 418
4S'8 Craftsmen -····-········-·ff9 Oakland .•...•.........• 1923
7S'
S'.00 12 354
4S'9 Plymouth ----········-f60 East San Diego ...... 1923
7S'
12 667
460 East San Diego -·········-f61
San Francisco - ······ 1923
90 10.00 12 274
461 Pyramid --·-············-f62 Los
Angeles _.... ,..• 1923
100 25.00 12 40S'
462 South Park -··········---f63
Oakland ................ 1923
80
S'.00 12 603
463 Foothill --················-f64 Los Angeles
1923
100
12 298
464 West Adams ·······-·······f6f
Los
Angeles
·-·······
1923
100
30.00
12 219
46S' James A. Garfield ·····--f66
Long Beach •........... 1923
80
12 474
466 Searchlight ·······-····-··f67 Oakland ................ 1923
7S'
12 368
467 Park Boulevard ·-·········f68
Oakland
•..............•
1923
7f
S'
.00
12 333
468 Chateau Thierry •.....••.• f69

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod9e

Ho.

469 Military Service ·-·········S'70
470 Francis K. Shattuck ..- .. 571
471 Jfmes Madison ·······----572
472 illcrest --····-········-····f73
473 S. W. Hackett •....•..•••._574
474 Fort Crook ·······-······---f7S'
47f El Cajon Valley ········---f76
476 Sunnyside ···········---.-..S'77
477 Progressive ··-··-····--f78
478 Warren G. Harding.._..f79
479 Santa Maria ·-···············S'SO
480 Security ····················--581
481 Rialto -···············-····-f82
482 Wasco ···--·················-f83
483 Harding ---················S'84
484 Manchester -···············S'SS'
48S' Garden Grove ..............S'86
486 Valley Forge .............._f87
487 El Sereno ·················-···S'88
488 Yauai ·-···-·················-·S89
489 Comfcass •...................._f90
490 Esca on -·····-·········---f91
491 Tujunga ····················-··'92
492 All States ···············--···f93
493 Service ·-··-···················f94
494 Alexander Graham Bell S'9S'
495 Guardian ·-··················· S'96
496 Pearl Harbor ·············-·f98
497 Carmelita ..................•._f99
498 Lynwood ·-··············-·-600
499 Grizzly ·······-···············-601
500 Mtlrose -···-··············_602
S'Ol Dimond -···············-·--603
502 Jubilee ····-·-················604
S'03 Glassell Park ··········----607
S'04 Sojourner ·--···············-607
S'OS' Granada ·-········'···-·······608
S'06 Provident •.....................609
S'07 Elmhurst ···-·-···········-610
S'08 Canoga --···············---611
S'09 Temple City ..............._612
S'lO Three Pillars ·············--613
S'l 1 Larchmont -·····-···-···--614
S'12 Hemet ·---················.61S'
S'13 R. E. Dolley -················616
514 Big Bear ····-················617
S'l S' Southland -················--618
516 Neptune -···················-619
S'l 7 Point Loma ·······-····--620
518 The Gardens ·······-·---621
S' 19 Atwater ··-················--622
S'20 Menorah ·-··················-623
521 Fortitude -················--624
522 Angeles Mesa ··········---62S'
S'23 Chula Vista .................•626
S'24 Lamanda Park ·-···········627

n~ i~t~ -------·········--·628

auview ···-············--629
527 Ingleside ·-··············--630

Charter
Issued

FeH

FMs Dues bers
Affll.
Mem-

San Francisco ........ 1923
Berkeley ................ 1923
Los Angeles .........• 1923
Berkeley ··-············ 1923
San Diego .............. 1923
Fall River Mills...... 1923
El Cajon ......•......... 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
North Sacramento.. 1924
Ramona ········-···-··· 1924
Bakersfield .............. 1924
Rialto ·-················· 1924
Wasco -················· 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Garden Grove .......• 1924
Los Angeles .......... ·1924
Los Angeles •......... 1924
Lihue, T. H. .......... 1924
Pomona .................. 1924
Escalon .................. 1924
Tujunga ...............• 1924
Long Beach ...........• 1924
Long Beach ...........• 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
South Gate ·····-····· 1924
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1924
Pasadena ................ 1924
Lynwood ................ 192S'
Portola •................. 192S'
Los Angeles .......... 192 S'
Oakland ................ 192 S'
Santa Ana .............. 192S'
Los Angeles .......... 192 S'
Monrovia ·········-····· 192 S'
Alhambra .•............ 1925
Sacramento ·-········· 192S'
Oakland ................ 192S'
Canoga Park .......... 1925
Temple -~---··-········· 192S'
Sacramento ............ 1925
Los Angeles .........• 1925
Hemet .................... 192S'
Seal Beach ............ 1925
Big Bear Lake ........ 192S'
Los Angeles ·-······· 1925
Long Beach ·--······· 192 S'
San Diego -··········· 1925
Los Angeles .......... 192S'
Los Angeles .......... 1925
Los Angeles .......... 192S'
Oakland ·-············· 192S'
Los Angeles .......... 182S'
Chula Vista ............ 192S'
Pasadena ····-·········· 192S'
Los Angeles •......... 1924
Los Angeles •......... 1926
San Francisco ·-····· 1926

100
7S'
7S'
7S'
80
7S'
7S'
12S'
7S'
7S'
80
100
7S'
80
75
12S'
S'O
100
7S'
7S'
70
S'O
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
100
lS'O
7S'
12S'
S'O
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
7S'
7S'
7S'
100

10.00
S'.00

Location

S'O

7S'
7S'
100
S'O
7S'
7S'
100
90
7S'
7S'
7S'
12S'
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
76
80
7S'

12 339
12 2S'8
12 334
12
70
12 S'26
S'.00 12 143
12 208
20.00 12 4S'4
lS' .00 12 4S'8
12 427
12 106
12 359
S'.00 12 13S'
12 262
S'.00 12 239
20.00 12 3S'6
25.00 12 186
12. 50 12 3S'7
12 389
10.00 12 123
2.00 12 223
12 123
12 23S'
12 HS'
12 6S'8
S'.00 12 266
12 717
lS'.00 12 S'H
12 301
12 341
10.00 12 146
10.00 12 219
S'.00 12 277
1.00 12 . 31S'
12 397
12 187
12 665
10.00 12 374
10.00 12 217
1.00 12 202
12 321
10.00 12 364
S'.00 18 372
........ . 12 14S'
12 194
12 133
S'.00 12 289
12 241
S'.00 12 4S'l
12 379
12 3S'O
12 696
S'.00 12 18S'
12 S'81
1.00 12 307
12 221
1.00 lS' 250
3.00 12 247
12 162

118

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
lod9e

No.

52S Benevolence ----··--·63 I
)29 Normal Heights ..........632
HO Poinsettia --·-·--633
53 I Victorville ·-····-~----634
"i32 Riverside ······-·---63,.
"i33 ~ohn Marshall •.......•...-636
"i34 alisades -··-···-··-···637
SH Indian Rock ·-···-··--638
B6 Composite -···--·-··639
537 Veritas -······-·-·--··640
BS James A. Foshay ·--···641
"39 La Cumbre ·-···-·-··-···642·
S40 Alta Loma -·----643
HI Lomita --··-····-·---644
S42 A. P. E. Irwin ·-··· -····64'
H3 Metropolitan · - - - -.•646
SH Hawthorne --··----647
H"i Damascus ----···-···....648
S46 Florence -····-···.........-649
H7 La Brea -····-···---·6'0
HS Menlo Park ·-····-···--6'1
S49 Creacenta Valley ~-··--6'2
HO Fontana ·-···--·--6'3
HI Jordan - - · - - - 6 ' 4
H2 Monte Vista -··--·-·6H
_____6,.6
H3 Citrol
H4 John D. Spreckels •......•6"7
S"i"i Livingston -·····-····--···6'S
H6 La Habra .................-.6'9
"i S7..Baldwin Park ·······-··--·660
HS Malta - - -···--661
H9 Henry · Knox --···-·-662
S60 Ojai - -·----··---663
S6I Kaweah -···-····-·····-66'
S62 Reseda --·-·----666
"i63 Meridian -······-----667
S64 San Gorgonio -·······-668
S6"i John P. Jarman ····-·---669 S66 Greenleaf -·········---670
S67 San Clemente ···--···-671
S6S Laguna Beach ·----672
'169 Par West --····--673
"i70 Los Cerritos -·--·-····674
,.71 Modesto - - - - - - 6 7 '
sn Willow Glen _____676
"i73 Liberal Arts _ _ _ _677
'174 .Altadena ---·-·--·-··678
'7"i Canby Cross --··--679
"i76 Carmel - - - · - - 6 8 0
'177 Dos Palos ---····-··-681
S7S Barstow ·-··--···-----682
"i79 Redwood Empire ._.•..683
SSO Trona
SSl San Marino -········-·-68'
,.S2 .Albany ---·-··--686
SS3 Vista ---------687
SS4 Oildale ·----·······-···-688
SSS Pohon a ·-····-········--689
,.S6 San Carlo• - · - - · 6 9 0

----·--68"

location

Charter
luued

Los Angeles
I926
San Diego .............. I926
San Buenaventura •• I926
Victorville ...................... I926
Riverside ·-····-······· I926
Beverly Hills .........• 1926
Santa Monica ······- I926
Berkeley •.•............• 1926
Los Angeles .......... I926
San Francisco •......• I926
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1926
Santa Barbara ······- I926
Signal Hill ··-····-··· I926
Torrance ···-····-····· I926
San Pedro ···-·······- I926
Los Angeles ···---... I926
1926
Hawthorne
San Bernardino ...... I926
Los Angeles ·····-··· I927
Los Angeles ·····-··· I927
Palo Alto ..................... I827
Montrose ................ I927
Fontana ·····-······-··· I927
Los Angeles ·····-··· I927
Long Beach •........... I927
Brea ·-··········-········· I927
San Diego-··········· I927
Livingston ·-····-··--1927
La Habra ................ I927
Baldwin Park ............. I927
Los Angeles .................. 192S
Los Angeles ................. 192S
Ojai ·······-···-···_,.... 192S
Woodlake ..................... 192S
Reseda -·······-········· 192S
Glendale .......................... 192S
Banning ······-····-··· 192S
San Jose ·····-········· 192S
Whittier -·-···--·-- 192S
San Clemente ·-·-·· 192S
Laguna Beach ··-···· 1929
San Francisco ..••...• 1929
Long Beach ............ 1929
Modesto ................... . 1929
Willow Glen ·····-··· 1930
Los Angeles ·-······· 1930
.Altadena -·······-·· 1930
Tulelake ·-·····------- 193"i
Carmel···-··············· 193-"i
Dos Palos ...................... 1939
Barstow ·····-··········· 1940
Garberville .............. 1940
Trona ........................___,.__ I941
South Pasadena ...... 1944
Albany ···-············· 194"i
Vista ·---·-···-194,.
Bakersfield
1946
Yosemite Valley ...• I946
Redwood City ·-··- 1946

-

Fen

so

7"i
H
7"i
7"i

"i.00

7"i

"i.00

125'
100
100

10.00
l"i.00

so

7"i
7"i

so
so

"i.00

7"i

7S
7"i
I2S'
100
7"i

"i.00
"i.00

2"i.OO
10.00

7"i

H
7S
7"i

10.00

"iO

1.00

so

"iO
"iO
"iO

is

I2S'

2"i.OO

"iO
"iO

7S
100

so

,,.,,.
,,.

1.00

7"i

"i.00

7"i

1.00
10.00

7"i

12"i

"i.00

"iO

1.00
3.00

"iO

H

l"i
I2
I2
I2
12
12
I2
l"i
I2
l"i
12
I2
I2
12
12
I2
I2
I2
I2
l"i
12
I2
12
12
I2
I2
I2
l"i
I2
I2
12
12
H
12
12
12
12
12
12'
12
12
12
12

12

7'J
12"i
7'J
7"i
"iO

10.00
1.00

7'J
100
7'J

2"i.OO
10.00

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
1'J

"iO

12
12

100

1'

"iO

12
18

100

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

Affll.
M•m·
F- Daes &era

IOO

270
H9
"i37
I79
334
262
3H
196
334
llS
225'
2I7
336
236
247
117
294
41iS
439
2"i9
193
334
252
323
521
16S
S62
120
I60
I29
217
424
94
102
22S
'.427
207
222
39S
62
173
2S6
271
381
249
2n
376
ll"i
131
94
229
70
123
279
143
196
121
'J7
l"i9

119

No.

5S7 Indian Wells Valley ....69I
SSS Travelera
·
692
SS9 Palm Sprin~s - -.•693
S90 San Antonio --········694
59I Meudell -·---·---69,.
S92 Crosaroads --·····-·········-696
S93 St. Elmo -····--·-···--697
594 Wm. D. Stephens ........69S
S95 Bixby Knolls -··············699
S96 Ponderosa ···········-·······700
S97 Santa Ynei Valley-.••.. 70I
S9S Rosemead ......................702
S99 Westchester -·-···---U.D.

Charter

FHS

lnyokern ·-············· 1946
Sacramento ·-········· 1947
Palm Springs ........ 1947
South Gate ·······-··· 1947
Bakersfield .............. 194S
San Diego .............. 194S
Oakland ·············-··· l 94S
Los Angelea..•.·-····· l 94S
Long Beach ............ 1949
Fresno ···········-······· 1949
Los Olivos ·····-······· 1949
Rosemead .............. 1949
Los .Angeles ............ 1949

100
7S
100
100
100

location

luued

so

100
12"i
7S

so

7S
7S
79

Fees Du.s bert
Affil.
Mem·

"i.00

10.00
l"i.00

12
12
1'J

12
12
12
10.00 12
12
10.00 12
12
1.00 12
12
12

lH
S7
92
64
62
SS
37
3S
70
"i4

30
H
2S'

Total membership, July 31, 1949..................190,,.43

""
i

I
f

450

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES

82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San FranclSco
Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 18SO. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
1 Chart
·
er never
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 185 .
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to EI Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John's Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, Dec. 8, 1824.
.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
4
4
6
7

1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royai Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
69 Corinthan Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as
1
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never

issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaltirna, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

451

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

I ~I

1919.

85
85
86
88
88

Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
Saint Louis, Rowland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield. 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.

13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8
1924.
.
'
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19
1926.
'
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced. 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. ll, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15
1908.
.
•
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11

,,....
J

lITTl.

'

Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct 15

115

•

1936.

121
125
130
133
137
138
142
148

'

Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
Yosemite, Coultervµie, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240 as Colusa No
240, April 1, 1882.
'
•
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec 2
1865.

.

• •

452 .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
151
152
153
154
155
157
158

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11. 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.

15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Eshcurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
JSSUed.

175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
R~cklin Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never

1

JSSUett.

205
213
218
222
223
226
227
238
239

240

Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
.
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
Pescadero, Pescadera, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.

453

1

249

Gr~~~a~~· Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.

251

Bro~herhoo~ Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.

252 Boiifs. Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1
257 Arizona,_ _?hoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombs~on.e, ~z. Ter. _Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26 1888.
284 ~ff.• Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hi9~~~e, Hueneme, ~892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
340
342
350
364
371
372
386
398
413
432
438
456

Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
Manila, Manila, P . .I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Cavite, Cavite, P. I.1 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Olivet, Coming, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Oceanic, ~onolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
Corregidor, Manila, P. l., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Fowler, Fov.:ler, .1908. Consolidat~ with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
K'i.92N~t, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18,

496 Riverdale! Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park; 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct 15
•
'
1931.
612 Wl~~an, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,

Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R E Dolley No 616
Oct. 14, 1937.
. .
.
'
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
·
664 0~1:7.El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
616

454

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
1850

Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1856

Jonathan D. Stevenson ..G. M.
California No. I
Bom Jan. I, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894
John A. Tutt.......... _..D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner........_.S. G. W.
Sashel Woods.......___J. G. W.
Levi Stowell.........--···-·-·G• T.
John H. Gihon ...... _ ___G. S.

1851
John A. Tutt....---·····--·G. M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam .......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis................S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds........._.•.J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas......G. T.
Levi Stowell... _.................G. S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam .....__G. M.
Benicia No. Ii
Born March I, 1813
Died July 12, 1893
ChaL M. Radcliff...... D. G. M.
Addison Martin......._.......G.T.
J. R. McConnell........ J. G. W.
Addison Martln ......- -----G• T.
Levi StowelL.---·······- ·- -G· S.

1853
Charles M. RadclifL...G. M.
Tuolumne No. I
Born Feb. Ii, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1119
T. A. Thomas..............D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall........S. G. W.
Richard F. Knoff._____J. G. W.
Addison Martin _________ G. T.
Levi StowelL.·-····--···-·G• S.

1854
William H. Howard ......G. M.
San Jose No. 10
lom Au9. 29, 1810
Died Sept. II, 1866
Nath. G. Curtis........D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole..........S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Levi Stowell...................-.G• S.

1855
William H. Howard ......G. M.
T. A. Thomas.............. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ......S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..·-··-·····G• T.
. uvi StowelL-·- ····-·----G. S.

William H. Howard.-...G. M.
John A. Raymond ....D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon .._ •..•.-.S. G. W.
Peter W. Randle ......J. G. W.
Addison Martin ......- ......G. T.
Alex G. AbelL-·····-·-···G• S.

1863

1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis...... G. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Wm. McCormicL...S. G. W.
Jas. W. Bicknell........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ______G. T.
Alex G. Abell ....... - ---·- ·G . S.

o.

1859
Nathaniel G. CurtiL.....G. M.
P. W. Shepheard...-D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lene.......•..S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley........J. G. W.
Addison Martin _______ G. T.
Alex G. AbelL.---·····-··G. S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W.
Alvlnza Hayward ......J. G. W.
Addison Martin _ ____G. T.
Alex G. Abell... _______G. $.

1861
James L Engllsh............G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born June ~.1.1813
Died May n, 1889
Wm. C. Belcher........D. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
James Laidley....- ..........G. T.
Alex G. AbelL............-.G. S.

1862

1883

1870

John M. Browne............G. M.
Chas. L Wig9in _____ o. G. M.
Wm. W. Traytor........S. G. W.
Wm. H. Crane..........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ·····-···········6. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............G. S.

Jonathan D. Hines ...- ...G. M.
San Buen.venture No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin ........O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Haller ···--------6. T.
Alex G. Abell ............- ....G. S.

o.

William C. Belcher........ G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... O. G. M.
Wm. A. Oavies.......~..S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus.________J. G. W.
James Laidley....·-·········G. T.
Alex G. AbelL---·-····G• S.

1871

Leonidas E. Pratt_______G. M.
Chas. L Wiggin ...- ... D. 6 . M.
Ben. H. Freeman ......S. G. W.
Gao. C. Perkins........J. G. W.
James Laidley..... __________G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ..-·····- ···G. S.

1865

1872

Leonidas E. Pratt..........G . M.
Benj. H. Freeman ... __ G. M.
Gao. C. Perkins........S. G. W.
John M. Browne...- ...J. G. W.
James Laidley..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell·-··-······-···G. S.

o.

1

1866

1873

Gilbert C. Claiborne.... G. M.
Henry H. Hartley... _.O. G. M.
Wm. H. Peterson......S. G. W.
Thomas BecL. _____.J. G. W.
James Laidlay....- ....•......G. T.
Alex G. Abell.._. ___..•...G. S.

ls1111c S. Titus................G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Bom Od. 14, 1827
Died April 22, 1892
Gao. C. Perkins........ O. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W.
Chas. E. Mitchall......J. G. W.
James Laidley_ _ ___ G. T.
Alex G. Abell__________ G . S.

1867
William A. Oavlas..........G. M.
Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916
Henry H. Hartlay.... O. G. M.
Thomas BecL__ .......S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt_____J. G. W.
James A. Laidley __ _ G. T.
Alex G. Abel'----·-··- ·- ··6· S.

1874
George C. Perkins...- ...G. M.
Orovllla No. 103
Born Au9. 23, 1839
Died Feli. 26, 1923
John M. Browne........ O. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker_______ G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnln .......... J. G. W.
James Laldley____•______G. T.
Alex G. AbelL.... ______ 6. S.

s.

1868

William C. Belcher.._....G. M. Charles Marsh ................6. M.
Nevada No. 13
Corlntfilan No. 69
Bom Dec. 6, 1825
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Aprll 28, 1176
Died Sept. I, 1895
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M. Leonidas E. Pratt...... O. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W. Theo. G. Cockrill......S. G. W.
John B. Hewson ...- ...J. G. W. Fredk. F. Barss...- .....J. G. W.
James Leidley_________ G. T. James LaidleY--- -··········G• T.
Alex G. Abell_ _____G. S. Alex G. Abell-·- ··--·---6· S.

1876
John M. Browne............G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ...... 0. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells ............S. G. W.
Solon W . Craigue ___J , G . W .
James LaidleY- ····-···-··G• T.
Alex G. Abell... .......... - ...6. S.

Leonidas E. Pratt.....____G. M.
Isaac S. Titus________ G . M.
Chas. L Wiggin.____S. G. W.
Banj. H. Freeman......J. G. W.
James La idley..................G. T.
Alex G. AbelL........- ..-.G. S.

1864

Gilbert C. Claiborne....G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wm. A. Oavies.... _....O. G. M.
Isaac S. TituL....... - ....S. G . W.
Henry H. Hartley ......J . G. W.
James Laidley__________ G. T.
Alex G. AbelL.---··-··G· S.

1869
Leonidas E. Pratt..........G. M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Au9. 29, 1133
Died Od. 2&, 1886
Isaac S. Titus. _______ _ G. M.
John S. Ward ..... _ _ G. W.
Richard Oale._.•.........J. G. W.
James Laidley.... ________G. T.
Alex G. AbelL..........- ..6. S.

o.
s.

William C. Belcher_......G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne_____ G. M.
Louis Cohn..·-····-···S· G. W.
Wm. A. Oavies.•_......J. G. W.
James Laidley•.--····-·- ··G. T.
Alex G. AbelL--··- ·····G. S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtls......G. M.
WashlnQton No. 20
Born Feb. 8 1825
Died July t2, 1891
Charles Marsh ..... - ..... 0. G. M.
Aaron D. ParL •........S. G. W.
John B. Pope.......- .....J. G. W.
Addison Martin ---·-·-··G· T.
Alex G. Abell
G. S.

455

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1875

,

John M. Browne ............ G . M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Chas. L Wiggin ...... O. G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin .......... S. G. W.
Jacob H. NefL .......J. G. W.
James Laidley.............- ...6. T.
Alex G. Abell.·-·········-···G• S.

1877

1878
John M. Browna............G. M.
Wm. W . Traylor_ .... O. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane..........S. G. W.
Robt. C. Broder........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ···-----~G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ..........___ 6. S.

1879
William W. Taylor........ G. M.
California No. I
Born March 17, 1m
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Samuel C. Oenson ....O. G. M.
Clay W. Taylor.....-.S. G. W.
John Q. Adam•--·-···J. G. W.
Moses Haller · · - -- -·G· T.
Alex G. Abell ...- ...........G . S.

1880
Samuel C. Oenson........ G. M.
Union No. 58
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Died July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor........O. G. M.
John Q. Adams ........ S. G. W.
0. W . HollenbecL.J. G. W.
Moses Heller - - -····-·-·G• T.
Alex G. Abell...... _______ G. S.

1881
Clay W. Taylor.............. G. M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept. 10 1844
Died May I, 1897
John Q. Adams........ O. G. M.
Jonathan 0. Hines....S. G. W.
Thos. J. Bowers...........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ··-- - ·-·-·6• T.
Alex G. AbelL ..- ...........6. S.

1882

Clay W. Taylor.. _. _____G. M.
Jonathan O. Hines.... O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atklnson ......S. G. W.
George Hinds...- .......J G. W.
Moses Heller - ··-·-·-·-G. T.
Alex G. Abell............- ..-6. S.

1884
Jonathan 0. Hines ........ G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ........ O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller ---···- ···6• T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............G. S.

1885
Wiley J. Tinnin.......- .... 6. M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Ocf. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... O. G. M.
Hiram N. Rucker......S. G. W .
Henry H. Knapp .._ J. G . W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. AbalL ..- ...........6. S.

1886
Edmund C. Atkinson ....G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17, 1837
Died March 20, 1911
Hiram N. Rucker...... O. G. M.
Morris M. Estae........S. G. W.
Alvah R. Conklin ... _.J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _..6. T.
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.

1887
Hiram N. Rucker --·-···6• M.
La Gran9e No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee..._ .. O. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin ......S. G. W
Wm. Johnston ..........J. G . W.
Nathan W Spaulding ___6. T.
Alex G. Aball ..................6. S.

1888
Morris M. Estee..... - .....6. M.
Califomla No. I
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Od. 7, 1903
Alvah R. Conklin...... O. G. M.
William Johnston ......S. G. W.
Marc. 0. Boruck........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....6. T.
Alex G. AbelL...............6. S•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

456

1901

1895

1889

Morris M. Estee............G. M. Edward M. Prest.on__..•.6. M.
Nevada No. 13
William Johnston ....D. G. M.
lorn May 4~841
Died Aprll , 1'°3
Chas. R. Gritman ......S. G. W.
Wm.
T. Lucas....- ......D. G . M.
Henry S. Orme_......J. G. W.
Thomas Flint_________ 6. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
F. M. Angellotti........J. G. W.
Alex G . Abell..................G. S. Edward Coleman..._.......G. T.
George Johnson ··-········&• S.

s.

1890

Alvah R. Conklln............G. M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
Died Oct. 5, 1897
William Johns+on ...... D. G. M.
Chas. R. 6ritman....S. 6. W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding __6. T.
George Johnson ____6. S.

Wllllam S. Wells_____&. M.
Martina No. 41
lorn June 24, 1161
Died Jan. 23, 1919
0. S. Henderson____D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting •.•.S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter _J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.........-.6• T.
George Johnson ___...6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............G. L

George F. Rodden ........6. M.
Marin No. 191

1908

William T. Lucas............6. M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March II, ll50
Died March 21, 1931
Thomas Flint.............. D. G. M.
F. M. Angellottl.....
G. W.
Chas. L Patton.. _ ..J. 6. W.
Edward Coleman............6. T.
George Johnson , . _...6. S.

Oscar Lawler
_
6. M.
East &ate No. 290
lorn Aprll 2, 1875
W. Frank Pierce........D. 6. M.
Dana R. Weller __S. G. W.
A. J. Monroa............J. 6. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
John Whlcher_______6, S.
Tliomas J. Baker..............6. L.

_s.

s.

1898

1904

Charles R. Gritman __6. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dec. 10, 1838
Died Mey 14, 1194
Henry S. Orme........D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston....._.J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding __6. T.
George Johnson ____6, S.

Frank M. Any.ellottl......6. M.
Marin No. 91
lorn Sept. 4, 1861
Died Mey 23, 1932
Chas. L Patton - ······D· G. M.
Jas. A. Foshay______ G. W.
Wm.
Wella._______J. G.
Edward Coleman..·-···-··6· T.
George Johnson ______6, S.

George W. Hunter____G. M.
Humboldt No. 1'
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1'25
Motley H. Flint...___D. G. M.
Edw. H. Her+.________ 6. W.
Geo. M. Perine __J. 6. W.
Edward Coleman.---·····G· T.
George Johnson _ . _ 6 , S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......- ...6. L

s.

s.

w.

s,

1899

1905

Charles L Patton.......... 6. M.
California No. I
Born 1865
Died April II, 1923
Jas. A. Foshay.......... D. 6. M.
Wm. S. Wells.....___ 6. W.
O. S. Henderson......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman _____G. T.
George Johnson _ .....6. S.

Motley H. Aint.........- ..6. M.
East &ate No. 2'0

s.

1900

lorn F9b. "· 111'1
Died July 14, 1930

Edward H. Hart........ D. G. M.
G.eo. M. Perine___.S. 6. W.
Reuben H. Uoyd ___J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.....- ..6. T.
George Johnson -·--6· S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........-6. L

1906

James A. Foshay............G. M.
So. C.llfornla No. 278
lorn Nov. 23, 1156
Died Jen. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells_____D. 6. M.
0. S. Henderson ___ G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting....J. G. W.
Edward Colem~n···-·-···6. T.
George Johnson _ _6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards......._ ..6. L

s.

1909

1903
Charles W. Nuttin?i······G. M.
Evenln; Star No. 16
Born Oct. 3, 1152
Died Sept, 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... D. G. M.
Motely H. Flint........S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hart___J. G. W.
Edward Colemen________&, T.
George Johnson ____6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards________G. L

1892

James B. Stevens ·-······6. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn t.4ardl 27+ 1841
Died Dec. 6, I 19
Edw. M. Preston.-.... D. G. M.
Wm. T. Lucas............S. G. W.
Tliomas Flint.........._.J, G. W.
Edward Coleman............6. T.
George Johnson -·--·-6• S.

1914

1902

1897

1894

1919
Chas. Albert Adama......6. M.
Excelslor No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Geo. F. Rodden ........D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke______S, G. W.
Wm. A. Sherman ......J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher.......- .........6. S.
Thomas J. Baker._ _ _6. L

Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
t.4ornini;i Star No. 68
Born June 2, IB63
Died June 25, IMl
Chas. W. Nutting .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter..._.S, G. W.
Motley H. Flint........J. 6. W,
Edward Colemen............6. T.
George Johnson _ _..6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds.·-··--·-6. L

1891

Henry S. Orm•·--····--·6. M.
So. C.llfornla No. 278
Born t.4arch 25 Im
Died Nov. :n, i912
Jas. B. Stevens.......... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston........S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas.......__J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...- .......6. T.
George Johnson ·---·-6• S.

1913
John D. Murphey..........G. M.
Alta No. 333
Born July 7, 1863
Died Sept. 15, 1945
Benj. F. Bledsoe........D. 6. M.
Alb. G. Bumett._...S. 6. W.
F. V. Keesling............J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher·-··-····-·····6. S.
Tliomas J. Baker..............6. L.

1896

William Johnston ......._.6, M. Tliomas Flint _______6, M.
Franklin No. 143
Tuas No. 46
Born June 2, 1825
Born May 19& 1858
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Died Nov. I , 1936
Chas R. Gritman ...... D. G. M. F. M. AngellottL..... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ____ G. W. Chas L. Patton.....•.- .S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevens.- .......J. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay._._J, G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _6. T. Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson -··--6. S. George Johnson ·---····6• S.

1893

1907
George M. Perine........6. M.
Pacific No. 131>
lorn 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler............S. G. W.
W. Frank Plerce........J. ~- W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson _ _6, S.
Tliomas J. Baker---~---·6• L

Edward H. Hart _____6. M.
Uva Oak No. 61
Bom 1861
Died Sept. 26, lt17
Geo. M. Perlne........D. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd ......S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler . _.....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............6. T.
George Johnson .•._ _6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............6. L

l

W. Frank Pierce............6. M.
Oakland No. 188
lorn Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller ........D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe___ .....S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer--'· G . W.
Edward Coleman..._ .....6. T.
John Whicher.______6, S.
Tliomas J. Bak.e r.............. G. L

1910

Dana R. Weller._______ 6. M.
So. California No. 278
lorn March 24, 1174
Died Jan. 9, IM7
A. J. Monroe...._ ..... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer....._S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey ..........J. 6. W.
Edward Coleman___&. T.
John Whic:her_ _ _ _6, S.
Tliomas J. Baker____6, L

1911
Alonzo J. Monroe_ ._6, M.
H11mboldt No. 1'
lorn Oct. 19 18SI
Died June ''· 1922

Wm. P. Filmer......_..D. 6. M.
J. D. Murphey_ .......S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe.._..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..____G, T.
John Whicher_.________6. S.
Tliomas J. Baker.........- ..6. L

1912
Wm. P. Filmer................ G. M.
Kin; Solomon No. 2'0
Boni March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey...... D. 6. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........S. 6. W.
Alb. 6. Burnett __J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.._ .......G. T.
John Whicher.............- ..6. S.
Tliomas J. Baker...- ...--6. L

Benj. F. Bledsoe ............6. M.
Sen llamardlno No. 341
lorn F9b. •• 1874
Died Oct. JO, 1938

Alb. 6. Burnett...._ .D. 6. M.
F. V. Keesllng ______ G. W.
W. Rh. Hervey....._...J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..______6, S.
TliomH J. Baker.....- -...6. L.

s.

1915

1920

lom Dec.24, 1867

Died March 8, 1934
Sam. E. Burke............D. 6. M.
Wm. A. Sherman......S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crites........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher.....____6, S.
Tliomas J. Baker..........-6. L

1921

Samuel E. B11rka_____6. M.
Sunset No. 352

Albert G. Burnett.....:....6. W.
Santa RON No. 57
Born Aprll 9 I&
Died Aui;i. t!, 1923
F. V. Keesling......._ .. D. 6. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey......S. 6. W.
Bradford Webster_.J. 6 . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....._.6, T.
John Whicher..................6. S.
Tliomas J. Baker.........- ..G. L.

Wm. A. Shermen......D. 6. M.
Arthur S. Crites.... _.S. 6. W.
David J. Reese......_J, 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- .....6. T.
John Whicher.________6. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............6. L

1916

William A. Sherman......6. M.
Pr•ldlo No. 354

Francis V. Keesling........6. M.
C.llfornla No. I
Born Feb. 17, 1177
Wm. Rh. Hervey...... D. 6. M.
Bradford Webster....S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adam1..•._.J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...- 6 . T.
John Whic:her_ _ _ _6, S.
Tliomas J. Baker_______&, L.

1917

lorn Feb. 13, 1870

1922
lorn Sept. 17, 1880

Died F9b. It, 1940
Arthur S. Crites........D. 6. M.
David J. Ree1e.....- ..S. 6. W.
Alb. E. Boynton........J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whic:her..................6. S.
Tliom111 J. Baker........- ...6. L.

1923

Wm. Rhodes Hervey....6. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born March 26, 1870
Bradford Webster....D. G. M.
Chas. A. Adams........S. ~. W.
Geo. F. Rodden.-~.J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_______c;, S.
Tliomas J, Baker..............6. L

Arthur S. Crites _____6. M.
Bakersfield No. 224
lorn F9b. 4, 1879
David J. Reese.....- ... D. G. M.
Alb, E. Boynton........S. 6. W.
Geo. L Jones............J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher_____.........6. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- ...6. L

1918

1924

Bradford Webster __6. M. David J. Reese..............6. M.
Sen Buenav•nfur• No, 214
Live Od No. 61
lorn Au;. 22, 1871
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Died June 4, 1'41
Alb.
E. Boynton........D. G. M.
Chas. A. Adams........D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ..._ ..S. G. W. Geo. L Jon•··--····S. 6. W.
Sam. E. Burke........._J, 6 . W. Will H. Fischer.._ ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher.-------··G• S. John Whicher.............- ..6. S.
Thomas J. Baker_________&, L Tliomas J. Baker.............. 6. L

458

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1925

1931

1937

Albert E. Boynton....•..•..G. M.
Oroville No.IOI
Bom Od. !i_ 1875
Dl9d Feb. Zl, 1945
Geo. L Jone•-·-····--D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer....._...S. G. W.
Gus. A. Huteff________J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...- .....G. T.
John Whicher______________ G. S.
Thomes J. Baker.....---···(;• L

Robt. B. Gaylord ..........G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1176
Frank W. Mixter...... D. G. M.
James B. Gist___ G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_____________ G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

J11me1 T. Fraser.._..........G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Au9. 28, 1868
Leon 0. Whitsell.... .. D. G. M.
William H. Weste ....S. G. W.
William B. Ogden ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher...~-- .........G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ___________ G. L.

1926

Frank W. Mixter_______ G. M.
Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1173
Died May 22, 1947
James B. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton...- .....S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ............J. <;. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher________ ..G. S.
Thomes J. Baker.-.......... G. L.

George L JoneL•._... _.G. M.
Madl1011 No. 23
Born May II, 1173
Will H. Fischer_... D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff.-.......S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ___J , G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....- .... G. T.
John Whicher.....---·-·····G. S.
Thomas J. Baker._........... G. L

1927

Will H. Fischer_________G. M.
Wilshire No. 44&
Born Sept. II, 1875
Gus. A. Huteff.......... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ....S. G. W.
J. S. Rou _______J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whlcher_____________G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L

1928
(;ustev A. HutefL .......G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg ....D. G. M.
J.
Ro11......_ ........ G.
Robt. B. Gaylord .•__J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..... _...G. T.
John Whicher.·--········-G. S.
Thomes J. Baker. -..- ...G. L

s.

1932

1933
J111Ms B. Gist________ G. M.
Pentelpha No. 202
Born Au9. I, 1868
R. V. Whiting ............ D. G. M.
Earl Warren ..............S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whlcher.....---····---·G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.-- --······-G· L.

1934

1947
Chester H. Warlow......G. M.
Fresno No. 247
Born June 30, 1889
Edward H. Siems...... D. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer........S. G. W.
Arthur Paulsen........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling. _ __ G. T.
Uoyd E. Wllson ..............G. S.
Arthur M. Warren ..........G. L.

1946

1948

1944
Gilbert C. DeForest......G. M.
Reedlnca No. 254
lorn Sept. II, 1889
Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore...- ....J. G. W .
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson.________G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........G. L.

1939
William B. Ogden........G. M.
Hollywood Ro. 355
Born AuCJI. 26, 1876
Lloyd E. Wilson ..._ .. D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith........ S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Walter Leonard ..............G. L.

1940
Uoyd E. Wilson .......... - ..G. M.
ln9l..ld• No. 630
Born Au9. 16, 1895
Frank M. Smith..........D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_ ..............G. S.
Walter Leonard _____G. L.

1935

1941

C. M. Wollenberg ..•.....G. M.
Sterr IClnCJI No. 344
Born MerCh 13, 1173
John S. Ross..... ___D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord_S. G. W.
Frank W. ~ixter. _____J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer. ____ G. T.
John Whicher..- -......G. S.
Thomas J. Baker. ______ ... G. L

Earl Werren ...- ............... G. M.
Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, 1891
Rollie W. Miller...- D. G. M.
James T. Freser...- ...S. G . W .
Leon 0. Whitsell... ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....... _ G. T.
John Whicher.._ ............G. S.
Leslie E. Wood....... _____ G. L

Frank M. Smith ..............G. M.
East Gate No. 2'0
Born Aprll II, 1894
Leslie E. Wood .......... D. G. M.
Claude H. Morrison ..S. G. W.
G. C. DeForest........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.. _____ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson _________ G. S.
Chester H. Warlow....-.G• L.

1929

1945
Lawrence C. Kelley...... G. M.
Pentalphe No. 202
Born July 231 1889
Died Oct. 21, 1946
Arthur W. Brouillet...... G. M.
Park No. 440
Born Jan. 21, 1884
John R. Moore........S. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling. _____ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wll1on ..............G. S.
Chester H. Warlow...._ G. L

1938

w.

s.

1943
Claude H. Morrl1on.-...G. M.
Sen Diego No. 35
lorn July 10, 1817
Gilbert C. DeForest.. D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. Broulllet..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson ..- .........G. S,
Chester H. Warlow........G. L.

Leon O. WhitselL ....... G. M.
OranCJI• Grove No. 293
Born July ID, 1876 ·
William H. Waste.... D. G. M.
William B. Ogden ....S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ....._______ G. L.

Randolph V. Whiting ....G. M.
Kln9 Solomon No.160
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Earl Warren ...... _ ... D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller........S. G. W.
James T. Freser........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_____________ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ____________ G. L

s.

459

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1930

1936

1942

John Stewert Ross _ ...G. M.
El Centro No. 384
Sorn Mey 21, 1879
Robt. B. Geylord ...... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter ........S. G. W .
James B. Gist_________J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer_______ G. T.
John Whicher.......- .•......G. S.
Thomes J . Baker_______ .. G. L.

Rollie W. Miller............G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Bom Oct. 17, 1883
James T. Freser........ D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsell......S. G. W.
William H. Weste....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_____________G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ____ G. L

Leslie E. Wood .............. G. M.
Provident No. 609
Born Aprll 2, 1897
Claude H. Morrison .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Lloyd E. -Wilson _______G. S.
Chester H. W arlow.... _G. L

John R. Moore ..............G. M. Edward H. Siems...- .....G. M.
Meridian No. 667
Plymouth No. 560
BomS.pt. 1893
Born December 7, 1903
Chester H. Warlow.. D. G. M. Ellsworth Meyer....- .D. G. M.
Edward H. Siem1......S. G. W. Arthur Paulsen ..........S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer___J. G. W. Louis C. Drapeau ......J. G. W.
Francis V. Kee11ing _____ G. T. Francis V. Kee11ing ____G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..______ G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ............G. S.
Arthur M. Warren ....._ ..G. L Arthur M. Warren .......... G. L

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ............G. M.
Liberal Arts No. 6'n
Bom Feb. XI, 1'°5
Arthur Paulsen...- ..... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeau ......S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ... .J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Welter H. E. von Konsky G. L

460

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

l,,sf1t1el01's

LIST OF INSPECTORS
I nspectou

Dt11t1 of Commission

District

Clark H. Shaw.........................·-··········-···---...luly, 1911.·-········- ················· 97
Karl L. Ratzer............................................January 1, 1921............_..................117
John M. lcardo.........................................- ...January, 1921....•...........................115
Ralph M. Foote..........................·-····-···September 5, 1922................................. 26
S. Leslie Hawken....................................January 27, 1925..·-··············-·········- 52
Joel S. Conklin...............................................January, 1927................................ 11
Clarence L. Fraser....................................December, 1927................................ 63
Wm. S. Thompson.....................................- ...March, 1928-..···················-···-·· 59
Rudolph Mohr, Jr.................................,........January, 1929..·-··············-··-···- 46
Geo. P. Salm.._ ..............................................June 14, 1930..............................- 82
Harry 0. Carlson..........................~.............._ .July 1, 1930................................ 57
George A. Otis..·- ·-······································- .May, 1932................................112
Niles 0. M.illar----···- ···························-·-·-··.July, 1932................................ 32
Thomas B. Pollard........................................January, . 1933................................ 19
Harry S. Clark...·-································-···October 1, 1933................................111
W. Roy Farmer..............................................January, 1934................................ 92
Herman Thode ..................:······················----....March, 1934................................ 8
H. R. Hargrave....................................September 15, 1934................................ 62
Chas. H. Knights..................................December 28, 1934................................108
Alexander D. Potts....................................January 1, 1935................................103
W. I. Kohnke...................................- .........January 1, 1935................................ 47
John Behrens..............................................January 2, 1935................................114
Chas. S. Hogan...........................................- .....April, 1935................................ 5
Carl C. Mikesell.............................................October, 1935................................104-A
Samuel Dollar ............................................December, 1935.....................:.......... 61
Willard G. Babcock................................January 10, 1936.........................:......106
A.H. Allen...........- ......................................January, 1936................................100
James W. Robinson......................................January, 1936................................ 16
Wm. L. Davis........._ .....................................October, 1936..·-······-······-··········· 60
William C. Gover..........................................October, 1936................................ 6
Carl F. Peters....._...................................November 1, 1936..·-··························· 80
George S. Ward........................._...............January 1, 1937................................ 4
Lucas Shaiter............................._...............January 1, 1937..·-··························· 14
Gustaf A. B. Quick....·- ····-····- ············-···-··.June 5, 1937..·- ··-··-··············-··· 71
Ralph H. Logsdon....·-····················-···- ··.December, 1937· --··-··········-·······lM
Fred Weed...- .............................................September, 1938................................110
George L. Stivers......................................November, 1938..·-·········-················ 23
Guido de Ghetaldi.................................._...October, 1938................................ 18
Roy S. Lenthall.................................- ...........January, 1939................................ 36
Ralph C. Hine...·-··-···················-··········- ··.August, 1939................................ 70
Wm. H. Baxter...- ...................................December, 1939~----······················· 65
J. Wesley Sibole....- .................................December, 1939..- ........................... 25
Frederick A. Penn..·-····················-- - ··-··-··- ··-··- ··· 1940................................ 51
Ralph K. Pierson.-...........................................May 6, 1940................................ 95 ·
J. Tyler Parker, Jr...·--···-··--···············September, 1940................................ 90
E. L. Hicok (served 1923 to 1936)...- .........0ctober, 1940................................ 17
Harold S. Morrison..........................- ...December 1, 1940..·-··-··········-··-······· 89

'

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

461

Dalt1 of Commissi<m

District

Emil Bender....·-······-······--········-·····-··January 1, 1941................................ 44
Henry Kaiser..................·--- ··-·········'-·--.April 1, 1941................................ 55
Rolla L. Eubanks......................_________April, 1941................................ 30
John Ferguson, Jr...·-···-·-······-·····----October 7, 1941......- ....................... 45
Nels H. Johnson....................................:...January 6. 1942......·-····-····-- ····-··· 53
Leighton D. Annstrong····-·······--········.February 1, 1942.........................·-··· 22
Miles J. McClelland.-.................................March 10, 1942..·-··- ··-······-··- ······· 21
Earl D. Fonda.......................................December 13, 1942...........-................... 10
Orville L. Coburn..........................................March 3, 1943................................ 66
Elmer M. Hopper..·-···········-···-·······--···-··.May 10, 1943..............·- ··-··-·--· 3
Henry S. Savage, Jr.....·-···- · · -- ·-·-·-- .July 4, 1943...............·-·-······-·- 35
Melvin R. Berbower............................November 10, 1943..............·-·············· 98
Martin G. DeHaan....·- ········-·······-.·······.January 20, 1944......·-··-··············-··· 76
Harry A. Bradford..................................January 26, 1944..................._........... 39
Frederic E. Clark....................................January 26, 1944..·-···-·-······-··········· 78
Earl Stewart.·-····- --······--····-··--··- ··-··.February 6, 1944................................ 31
Ray W. Mclnt:rre-··-····-·····-·--··-····--.March 8, 1944..................·---··-··· 54
John Simpson..-····-··-- ··-·-·-··--··--...Marcii 8, 1944..............._.......... _ 24
Leo E. Anderson..........................................~ay 17, 1944................................ 77
Eric R. Johnson (served 1924 to 1942)........May 31, 1944................................ 48-C
John Ramsay........·-···-···- ··-··-··--·-·-··.July 5, 1944................................ 99
Guy B. Mize.·--··------··--··-··············.November 4, 1944..........·-···-·-·-··-·-- 86
Dwight C. Freeman..·-··--·····--····-···--·.March 2, 1945..........·-··- ··-··-··-··· 87
James B. Lawson.....______·-··---···-···---.March 6, 1945............·--·-···-······· 64
Arch Balchin....·-···-·········--···--··--····--~arch 27, 1945................................ 56
Floyd H. Watson...._ ...............·- ···-····-··.March 30, 1945_____·-·-·······-···--·· 69
Charles C. Hale................................·-··-····-·July 2, 1945................................ 28
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................September 27, 1945................................ 40
Alexander Duncan·-····- ····-··········-····-···October 9, 1945..·- ··- ··-··················· 1
Robert W. Nicol..-··-- ··---...................October 24, 1945................................105
W. Corell Smith...........- .......................December 20, 1945................................ 20
Raymond V. Worthley.....................___...January 7, 1946................................ 13
M. J. Jensen, Jr.....·-··--········-····-····--.January 22, l~................................ 48
Alfred J. Thibodeau................- .............February 6, 1946.............................:.. 42
Louis L. Cunningham................................August 2, 1946................................ 81
Thomas Hillary................- .................September 26, 1946·-- ··- ··-··-··········-··· 67 ·
Ralph Anderson....................................November 4, 1946..........·- ··················· 29
James G. Disher.........- .......................November 12, 1946...~·-····-··-··········-··· 34
Frank W. Johnson..............................November 21, 1946...................-........... 85
John A. Crosbie....................................November 21, 1946................................ 79
John A. Cummins................................November 23, 1946_............................. 41
Clare B. Campbell...._..............................January 1, 1947................................ 15
Arch T. Roberson.....- ...............................January 1, 1947................................ 27
Ray R. Bell...............·- ·--·-······-······-···-··-··.Aprll 7, 1947-----··············- ---107
Stephen E. Skidmore.......................-....- ..- ...April 7, 1947................................ 93
Fred C. Pritschke..............·- -············---····--·.April 7, 1947...............:................ 66-A
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr...........................September 8, 1947................................ 83
Rene Canonica ......................................September 8, 1947..·-··-··-······-······---113
Harry Burrows.........·-···-············-······.December 15, 1947..·-·-··- ··················· 2

462

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Diiie of Commission

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

District

R1eognizetl tmtl in Prlllernal Rel.tlions wilh the
Grtmtl Lodge of California

Russell Northrop.......................- .........December 20, 194'1..·-··-··········-··········· 75
Rush Manbert....·-···-······················-··.December 20, 1947···-······-··················· 48-A
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.........................December 29, 1947.......................·-·-··· 37
Howard S. Kaulbach..........................December 29, 1947................................ 38
Hailnan L. Wayne.....- .........................December 29, 1947......·-··-··················· 43
Martin Ortlieb.....-········--······················.January 13, 1948...................- ...........109
Stanley Hurst Wentz................................March 16, 1948................................ 49
Roy T. Kiele..·-···-····--····-············-··-·--..APril 22, 1948-·············-··-··-······· 84
William T. Rodger.·-········-····--·····-··--··April 22, 1948................................101
Howard Laurent...·-····-··-··-··---··-··-···June 19, 1948......·-······················· 96-A
Robert N. Walk.er..·-····-··············-·-·-··-July 28, 1948-·-··········-··············· 54-A
Elmer Glen Van TasselL............._...September 11, 1948.......----··············-·· 9
Reginald Reynolds ·····················-··--:.November 5, 1948................................ 7
Donald G. Campbell................................January 1, 1949................................ 91
L. Everett Richardson....................... ___.January 1, 1949...................- ........... 50
Albert E. Carroll.·-··-························-··.January 7, 1949.......................-.··-··· 94
John E. Chapin......·-····························-···January 7, 1949................................ 96
Louis H. Mahler.............................- .......January 31, 1949......................·-······· 73
Orin Compton ............................•...........February 9, 1949................................ 68
Fred A. Zweifel.....·-······-················-··-;____.May 12, 1949..._........................... 48-B
John A. Owen..........................................._ ..May 16, 1949.:........................._... 88
Chas. A. Thomasset..........................·--·······June 28, 1949................................116
Eric Wm. Nelson...................................- .......June 30, 1949................................ 12
William Nankervis, Jr............................- ...June 30, 1949................................ 38-A
Eugene P. Jijine...- .............................September 16, 1949................................102
Wilson Ernest Lathrop...................~........October 1, 1949......·-··················-··· 58
Robert H. Taylor..................................November '1, 1949...................- ........... 33

Bolivia:
Isaias Pacheco Jilnenez, Grand Secty.
'
Casilla Correo No. 564,
La Paz. Bolivia.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Raymundo Coqueiro Mendes, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodie of Bahia
Aguinaldo Marques Lobo, Grand Secty..
Rua Carlos Gomes N. 21, Bahia, Brazil. ·
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal N. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Luiz Nepomucemo de Mattos, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Orlando Rego Luna, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
Francisco da Silva Costa, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Jose Rodrigues, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFleury, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext.,
Caixa Postal 2611, Sao Paulo, Brazil
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
J.M. Magalhaes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil

I

Canada:
AlbertaGeorge Moore, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbiaW.R. Silnpson, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
ManitobaDr. Peter T. Pilkey, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.

463

464

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FIDlanda
Eino Kyllonen, Grand Secty.,
Vyokatu 9 B-14. Helsinki, Finland.
*France:
Independent National Grand Lodge.

Nova ScotiaReginald V. Harris. Grand Secty..
Freemasons' Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia
Prince Edward IslandL. A. McDougall, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. L

*Germany:
The Grand Lodge of Saxony.
Grand Lodge "Concord" at Darmstadt.
Grand Lodge "German Fraternal Chain" at Leipzig.

QuebeoW. W. Williamson, Grand Secty..
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate, Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.

Grand National Mother Lodge of the Prussian States,
"The Three Globes" at Berlin.
Grand Lodge of Hamburg.
The Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union at Frankfort.
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship at Berlin.
The National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons at Berlin.
The Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" at Bayreuth.

Chile:
Dr. Juan Eduardo Pastene, Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Colombia:
National Grand Lod~e at BarranquillaDr. Emirto de Lrma, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations,
Apartado 333, Barranquilla, Colombia.
The Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
The Grand Secretary
Apartado Nal. 25, Cucuta, Colombia, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota.
Enrique de Paramo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado No. 2519, Bogota, Colombia.
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena.

Guatemala:
Oscar Paz Pinto, Grand Secty..
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A
Hondurus:
Constantino S. Ramos, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.
Ireland:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland.

Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B. Grand Secty.,
Apartado Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba. Isle of:
Dr. Jose F. Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
•czecho-Slovakia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand LodeeK. J. Nilsson, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Ecuador:
Augusto Jijon T., Grand Se~.,
Casilla No. 932. Guayaquil, S. A.
Egypt:
The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Sayed Kamil El SharkaWY,
Beite Postale No. 1714, Cairo, Egypt.

England:
Sidney A. White, Grand ~ecty.,
freemaso~ H~ London, En~land.,

....

Mexlco:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
William Webber, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Alfonso Gomez Pereyra, Grand Sec.,
Apartado 42, Tujuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
Esteban Leal Villareal, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 390, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Guillermo Vazquez Romellon, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexican"a
Pedro Valerio Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracurz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Jose Luis Salgado, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Independent Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Jose Vidal Rios, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.

465

466

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Netherlanc:la:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. A. A. Galestin. Grand Secty..
22 Fluweelen Burgwal, The Hague.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales, .
.
James S. Miller, Grand Secretary, Masonic Hall. Sidney, N. S. W.
New Zealand:
H. A. Lamb. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1193, Wellington, New Zeland.
Nicaragua:
Carlos A. Fornos S., Grand Secty.
Apartado 42, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
0. Brinchmann-Hansen, Grand Secty.,
Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
W. Julio Icaza, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Republic of Panama.

Peru:
Jorge A. Butler, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
620 San Marcelino, Manila. P. L

Puerto Rico:
Angel M. Torres, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
E. G. Radford, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.
Salvador (Cusc::atlan):
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
San Salvador, C. A.
Scotland:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty..
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
Eric Hallin, Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Swilserland:
The Chancery of the Grand Lodge Alpina,
Bogenschutzenstrasse, 8, Berne, Switzerland.

467

Tasmania:
H. A. Wilkinson, Grand Secty.,
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venesuela:
Napoleon Camacho B., Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
W. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
•Vienna:
Western Australia:
F. W. M. Sanders, Grand Secty..
G. P. 0. Box D-177, Perth, Australia.
•Yugoslavia:
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.

•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to being rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
· Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alto Loma (643), Signal Hill
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414);Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.

Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.

469

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

J

Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.

Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles. .
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (UD), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.

Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABE~CAL UST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
·Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.

Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hartlef (199), Lakeport.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37), Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458)t...Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Hermann (127), San .nancisco.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Huntington Beach.

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), Inyokern.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A. Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.

Keystone (161), Milton.
Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.

Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Lankershim (542), North Hollywood.
La Puenta (446), Puenta.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Laurel (245), Willows.

1

471

Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Lomita (644), Torrance.
Honolulu, T. H.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles. Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lynwood (600). Lynwood.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain View (194),
Menlo Park (651), Palo Alto.
Mountain View.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Military Service (570), San Francisco. Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (UD), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

472

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Penrhyn (358), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Pe:ITis.

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q

Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.

Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

T

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto •
Richmond (375), San Francisco.

Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Marino (685), South Pasadena.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino.Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
San Diego (35), San Die~o.
Santa Mar~a (580), Ramona.
.
San Dimas (428), San Drmas.
Santa Moruca (307), Santa Moruca.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula
San Francisco (360), San Francisco. Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Los Olivos
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks,
Sanger (316), Sanger.
T. H.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
San Jose (10), San Jose.

South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Te:x:as (46), San Juan Bautista
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
V eritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

473

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

475

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

w
White Pine (555), Weed.
Warren G. Harding (579),
Whittier (323), Whittier.
North Sacramento.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Willits (365), Willits.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Westchester (UD), Los Angeles
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Woodridge (131), Woodridge.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles. Woodstock (491), Alameda.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
FOREWORD
We of your Correspondence Committee again present the report of
our explorations through the proceedings of the several grand lodges,
wheresoever dispersed around the globe. We here can give you only
the essence of our discoveries, wishing that every member might have
the opportunity to read with us the complete record.
Pride, and even exaltation, is inevitable when we view the proportions and the virility of our beloved order. Masonry abhors and shuns
group action and has always been dedicated to the task of working on
the individual so that each man may exert his own beneficent influence
on the world. In carrying out this fundamental purpose, many jurisdictions show evidence of activities such as the publishing of periodicals,
the maintaining of libraries, and the propagation of the doctrine of the
public school and constitutional government.
The strength of Freemasonry lies in the infinite variety of its forms
and practices, together with its complete unity as regards principles and
purposes. No central authority dictates its course, but each jurisdiction
fits Masonry to the needs and traditions of its own section. Some may
be orthodox and some liberal, some conservative and some progressive,
but all adhere to the Ancient Landmarks with a singleness of purpose
which permits no deviation from our basic tenets.
We were glad to be able to strike from our report the material concerning clandestine Masonry when on May 11, 1949, at its Quarterly
Communication, the Massachusetts Grand Lodge voted, "That the
vote of this Grand Lodge on March 12, 1947, relative to the Prince Hall
Masonry be rescinded.'' Thus a technical dispute which threatened a
serious schism was resolved in accordance with correct Masonic Law.
It is not our intention to again present the comprehensive and bulky
. review of postwar Masonry which we presented last year. That report
was separately printed and was received with commendation and approval throughout the Masonic world. It has become a standard reference book in many libraries. The February issue of The New Age,
published in Washington, D. C., stated, "The importance of this
domestic and global survey of Freemasonry will be apparent when we
realize how hopeless it would be for the individual lodge member or,
for that matter, the officers of the average lodge, to know what was

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

477

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

going on in Masonry even in his own country, let alone around the
globe."
In the present compilation of Masonic thought, as it is revealed in
the published proceedings of the several jurisdictions, we have selected
the inspirational rather than the factual. Under each category we have
endeavored to develop as a continuity an expression of the ideals and
aspirations of the Fraternity. We present it to you with confidence,
knowing that you will receive as much inspiration from it as we have.

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Domestic Freemasonry

JAMES K. FISK

Page

· NEwcoMB CoNDEE
FREDERICK 0. EAT-ON
OSCAR

c. OLSEN

Apostrophe to the Plag..--···~-~·-··---··-········-·····-··············~·············:...1!.;..J 482
Comments re Grand Lodge of CalifornJa....·--····-·-·················-····-············-·····- 486

HERBERT G. POLHILL

Comments re California Correspondence Report__ __ _

ANSON McARTHUR

Committee on Correspondeoce...--·--···-·-·-············-·······-·---····-··············:_~---···-- 491

FLOYD L. STEPHENS

._ _.........
· ...........4............ 488

Good and Welfare___________ ............. ·-···---············---···········:·····--~ 499

Grand Masters' Comments and Travela.·-··················-···-··················-···············-- 510
Concerning the Grand Secretaries-··------·-···········-···-·············-····-·········-·············Sanctity of the Temple

516

··········-·---·--······-········-·····--·····---··-··--·-......; 518

Lodges Get Too Large._--···--··--·-·------.:.····-·-·-··-·~- ........4 523

...

Masonic Landmarks ····-··-···········-······························-···-······················-················--- 525
Paragraphs Worth While ······-··················-·-·············-··················-·············-···-·-- 529
Masonic Libraries ·····-····································· ··················---·········----··························--- 538
Masonic Publications -····················································-·························--······-··-···- 540
Recognition of Continuous Service ---··············-~·-···-··············-········--··-··-······-··-- 544
Masonic Education ··········-···--·······························-- ···--····-···-···················'····--···-- 548
The Horizon of flreemaacmry_______________ _

...... " .~ .. 551

Continued Service to Our War Veteraoa..·--·--···-··-····-··--···········~--·······--· 555

Jjricrology.-..··-··-············:··-··-···-------··-··-·····-----·-······-·······-·······.............- 558
Freemasonry vs Communism---··-·········-·····-·····-····-·········-·······················...:.··--··- 560

478

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

479

1948-1949 STATISTICS
1. United States of America

Foreign Freemasonry
GRAND LODGES

Mexlc:o----··················-·········-····················:···-·····-························································· 569
Dominion of Canada.---········-·--,········-····-·-·-·····-······················-··-········-··················· 570

Alberta.-··--··--··--·-·····-···········-···-···········-················································--:··-· 573
British Columbia..--·······-········-···-·-···-···············-··-··-····-········:........................ 574

Ontario------··-·----·-··-·······--···--··--····-······-········-··-··•·········-····-·····- 574
Quebec_·---··-·---··-·········-··········-·-·--·····-··················-····················--- 575
Prince Edward Island..-···-······-·····--·····-···-····-·······-·········-·····-····"··········-··-- 575
Nova Scotia----·-·-·····-·---~-·-······-··-----·-········-···-········--··- 576

Saskatchewan....- ..--·······································-····················-·································-·· 578

~--·-··-·------·-·····················-····--··-·············-·--··········-----·-···········-·---- 580

Italy.-·-···---·····---·····················-······················-········--······--···-·-···············-·- 581
Spma·-·-···--············-····--··-···--··············-····-····································-··- 582
Sweden.------·····-··-----··-······---·····-····-······..···---~---·-----·-····--·····-······-········-···- 582
Berlin..-- - -··········--······-··-···········-···············--·-····--·····-··-···············--···-- 583
British Isle&.---·-··-·--·········-···-··-····-·-···········----·············-············-···-··· 584
Scodand-············-·······-·······--···-·--·--·············-·····-·····---·--·-··-···---·······-····-- 586
Ireland--...---·········--··-···-··········---·····-·--·---···--······-····--··-·····-·····--········- 587
Belfaat._.___._________________________________........................................._____________......._

588

Antrim-.--···--···-··--··-·-··-··········-······---···-·····-·-·········-·········--·-·--- 588
South A&iCL-..---·--·············-····-··--····-··················--··················--··--· -- 588
Philippine IaJanda_--···-··········--··-······-··-···-···---·····················--·-·--.-···- 589

..

No. of Hembe,._
Loclsea
ship

Alabama -···--·------···Arizona .............- .............
Arkanea1 ......_............._
California -----...............
Colorado - ........................
Connecticut - · - · - Delaware --------Di1trlct of Columbia......
Florida - - · - - -...
Georgia - - - - - - Idaho -·-·-··-·--------··
Illinoie ......................... _
Indiana .........- ......._ _
Iowa --··----···-·---·
Kaneu · - - - - - · Kentucky - - - · - - - Louisiana -··-----·Maine .......- .....................
Maryland -··----·-··
Maeeachusette -----··Michigan ........................
Minnesota ·---·------·
Miaeisai1>1>l - -..·---Mleeouri ......- ........._
Montana - - - - - - Nebraaka --------Nevada ............................
New Hamv1hlre - - -

419
89
381
698
148
182
22
48
286
468
79
974
688
646
440
477
262
207
122
829
624
292
808
601
186
277
28
81

New ZealanL·-················-·······--····-········-·-····-·--··-·········--·······---- 598
Cliaeea•Jand

. ---····-·--·-··-·-····-··--·--··········-·--·---··---~--·---·······---·· 592

South Auatralia.----···-·······-·················-·····-·····-········-···--·---··--····,··-- 593
Western Australia---····-·--··········-···-·····-··················- ······--························---- 595

VktiariL

No.of Mem. .r•
•hip

Loclse1

89,478
New ;Jeney ------..
281
New lllexlco - - - 67
10,067
*New York---..·--·-...
1,089
288,497
North Carolina ---·--·
824
46,064
North Dakota --·-- 119
12,929
240,891
Ohio ---·-·----.....628
Oklahoma .....----------888
7.0,886
Oregon ............................
182
86,714
Penn1ylvanla --------..
664
217,669
Rhode !eland --·- ---··
44
16,168
South Carolina ....-....
278
89,268
South Dakota ·-----·-168
17,887
Tennessee - - - - - - · ·
874
61,262
182,272
Texas -··---·- · - 892
Utah
-27
6,696
18,094
Vermont ------·-·---·
108
Virginia - ·- - - 827
64,042
Washington ....................
269
67,249
Weet Virginia -·--·-·
164
88,896
Wieconein ..........._ _
806
68,126
10,480
Wyoming - - - · - · - 60
tPuerto Rico ....._ _ _
61
6,187
Total for United States 16,828 8,897,972
•Excluelw of American Lodge of Rea: F1eld, No. 1, and elaht
Lodgee In S:vria-Lebanon District.
t.Aa of Dec. 81, 1947.

-rch, Sea

2. Dominion of Canada
GRAND LODGES

Yeara
Oriranbed

Alberta .............- ........................._.........--................................................_..
Brltieh Columbia ·-- .................................- ....................................- ............_
Canada-in Ontario ·----·------·-·-···--·-·-·--·..- - . . .
Manitoba ..................- .....- ................................................-........................
New Brunswick - - - - - - - -..............______________
Nova Scotia ..........- ...........................................................-..........................
Prince Edward llland ............_ ..............................................._.......................
Quebec ..
Saskatchewan - - - Total for _(le..,,_...n•.,d-•...__ _ _ __
Total for United

44
78
94
74
82
84
74
79
48

No. Of Mem. .rLodaea
ablp
168
126
678
106
46
90
16
99
204

18,728
16,410
109,008
18,262
7,286
11,962
1,188
16,218
16,628

1,412

204,610
.,•-.t..---------·------------ 16,828 8,897,972

Total for North Amerlcwoa..----~----------------

China...----·--····-·······-············---·-··--·······--············-············-·-·---·- 591
Aaltralla.----·----················-··-·····-·-····-·-···············-···············-···-·············--,592

68,064
7,792
48,828
188,198
87,948
41,232
6,468
24,171
48,280
67,691
12,117
281,410
166,714
84,802
86,600
78,890
87,699
48,260
88,496
111,468
148,487
68,469
89,878
109,167
22,664
89,828
4,117
14,766

GRAND LODGES

16,740 8,602,682

3. Latin America
GRAND LODGES
Bolivia --·-·-----Chila - ---·--·-·----·
Colombia, Nat'l Grand
Lodse _.,
of______
(Barran-_
qutJla)
Cuba ..........._ _ _ __

··-···-·-···-·-·---···············--···--········:···················-···· - 596

Peru ---··----· - - - Rio de ;Janeiro (Federal

··-··-··-······-·····-··-··---····-··-·--·····--·- ·····-·-··--·- 598

Dbtrlct) -----·--

No. of Membe,._
Loclsea
alllp
16
86

2,128
6,114

9

206
86

660
17,600
660

9

1,120

GRAND LODGES
San Salvador
(Cuecatian) - - - Del Pacifico ......................
Mexico, United Grand
Lodge OrientalPenlneular - -...........
York Grand Lodge of
Mexico -----··--·Total for Latin
America ... ___ _

No.of Mem. .rLoclna
alllp
8
16

77
682

16

660

10

628

408

28,804

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

4. Australasia
GRAND LODGES

Yean
Orpn.lzed

New South Wales...........---··-··-··--···-······-···················-···-·····-······-····--····
New Zealand ·-······-··········-····--······-·--····················-·-·-·······-·-···········
Queensland, United Grand Lodge of.---··-···············-··························-·······
South Auetralla
T8.8JDanla
---·
Victoria
Welltern A111tralla

No. of Member1hlp

Lodgeo

714
882
879
168
6'1
60
288

99,671
84,415
26,148
19,480
6,140
81,786
16,644

2,682

282,114

81
69
29
85
69
60
49

Total for A u t n l u l a . . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

No. of Member11alp

Lodss

Philippine• -·---······-·

101

I

GRAND LODGES
Staie

J

7,099

Yean
Organized

Alabama -·······-·--·-·----128
Arizona ............................................ 67
Arkansas ----------·-··------·.111
California .............................:.......... 99
Colorado .......................................... 88
Connecticut ,--··-··-··-··-····---160
Delaware ···-··--··-··-··-·-·-·-··-···143
Dist. of Columbia...........................118
Florida
Georgia ···--···-···--··-··-··-··-··-···161
Id~o................................................. 82
illmoJS ---··-·-·-·-··---------..109
Indiana --··--·-··--··-··--··-·-···131
Iowa ···-······--··-·--·-·--··---105
Kansas ·-·--···-------·----·---············-···· 93

Ken~~cky ···-··-·-··-······-··-·--·~····--149

6. Continental Europe
GRAND LODGES
Finland
Norway----··-Sweden - - - - - - -

6
20
49

No. of lllember1hlp

GRAND LODGES

No.of MemberUlp

1.oQa

Lodgs

Eetimated Total for
Continental Europe:.

218
10.000
28,100

74

88,818

481

1949 ANNIVERSARIES OF UNITED STATES

·---··----------··-·---119

5. Philippine Islands
GRAND LODGES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LouJS1ana ···-·-·-·-·····-·-··-·-··-·138
Maine --···-····---·-·-··---···---.130
Maryland -·····-·-··-·········--···-----182
•Massachusetts -·---··-····-·----172
Michigan ···-·-·--··--··-·-··----U8
Minnesota ...........-........................... 96

M~sissi:ppi ···-·-----··---··-··'--··-···131

M1ssour1 ··-··-·--...·--·..;..---.--128
Montana ...................- ....................... 84

State

Yean
Organised

Nebraska .......................................... 92
Nevada _ . ·----··-·--···-··-·--·-- 85
New Hampshire ···----··---·······-161
New Jersey ·--··-······--····-···------181
New Mexico ···-·········--····--···--·--··· 72
New York ···-·------··-·····-··---188
North Carolina ···-··---··-··-·-··-···162
North Dakota .................................. 60 ·
Ohio ···-··---··-··-··-·-·------141
Oklahoma ........................................ 41
Oregon ............................:................. 98
Pennsylvania ···········-·-··-··---182
Rhode Isla:nd ···---····-··-······-··-··-158
South Carolina ···-··--·-··-··-··--··.213
South Dakota ................................ 75
Tennessee -·--··-····-·-··----.13&
Texas -----··--·-···--·---.113
Utah ···--··----····-··-······-······-············· 77

V~~o!1t ---·-·-····-······--··---·185
Virgmla ···--··---··~-·--·---...171

Washin~on ...................................... 92
W~t Vl!ginia .................................. 85

;JScor~sm ·--·-·-··--··-----··-···105
yoming -·-··-··---·········--··--·--··-···- 75

•Since its Independence, .March 8, 1'177.

7. Great Britain, Scotland, and Ireland
Yean
Orsanised

GRAND LODGES

Encland
Scotland - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Ireland

282
21S

The Committee will welcome any revision• or any additional Information available Please
oend to Corresp0ndenee Chairman, care of the Grand Secretary.
•
No. of MemberLod&ea
•hip
6,097
900•
1,012

660,000
567,498
46,000

8,009

1,162,498

• 6'14 ln Scotland : S26 Oveneaa.

GRAND TOTAL (1148-1949)
No. of
Lodpa

United State1 of America...........·-·················
Dominion of Canad"--·····- ···········-······-··-·····
Latin America
Auatralaeia
PhJllpplne11
Continental BaZOPe
Encland
Scotland
Ireland

-----···

Total

Gain
Lo11

16,828
1,412
408
2,682
101
74
8,097
900
1,012

-28
7

27,8&2

1191

94

·3

-.
812

Membership

Gain

8,897,972
204,610
28,804
282,114
7,099
18,818
660,DOO
687,498
46,000

68,21i"S
10,221

6,118,410

17,421
927
60,000

lH,822

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

APOSTROPHE TO THE FLAG
The opening ceremony of every Communication of a Grand Lodge
is an impressive and well remembered service, including as it does, the
introduction and reception of The Flag of our Country, with its resulting heart surge of love and devotion.
In our world-wide reviews we are pleased to note that generally
full ceremony occurs as well as PROPER RECORDING in the Minutes
·
as illustrated by the following selected excerpts.
It is our contention and urge that due mention should be made in
the official Minutes of every Grand Lodge as well as its subaltern unitsthe Lodge itself.

Maine, 1949
Reception of United States Colors
The Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, prayer being offered
by the Rev. DAVID L. WILSON, L. H. D., Grand Chaplain.
The Gra.n d Marshal retired, and subsequently the Colors were advanced by a Color Guard, in uniform, composed of the following members of the Harbor Defenses at Fort Williams, Portland, Maine:
Master Sergeant ROBERT B. HOLMES, Atlantic Lodge, No. 81.
Sergeant ROBERT E. BORDEN, Hiram Lodge, No. 180.
Corporal RussELL S. BICKFORD, Sebasticook Lodge, No. 146.
The Communication then sang one verse of "America" and one verse
of "God Save the King."

483

Wisconsin, 1948

Reception of United States Colors
The United . States Flag was presented by the Grand Marshal,
assisted by a guard of honor, and was received and placed in its station
on the dais at the right of the Grand Master.
The pledge of allegiance to the Flag was then given and the members of the Grand Lodge joined in singing "the Star-Spangled Banner."

;
Kentucky, 1948
The American Flag was presented by color bearers from Camp
Knox Lodge No. 919, Fort Knox, Kentucky, led by M/Sgt. Guy E.
Hawhee, Master, M/Sgt. Henry Surowski, Senior Warden and M/Sgt.
William M. Hamm, Junior Warden.
After the pledge of allegiance to the Flag, the delegates joined in
singing " America" led by Deputy Grand Master Fred M. Gross.
Nebraska, 1948

Presentation of the Flag
Grand Master: Brethren:
We will now have the presentation of the colors.
Presentation of the flag by John A. Crow, Captain U. S. Army; J.
V. Shinglebecker, Chief Petty Officer U. S. Navy; J. H. Cunningham,
First Sergeant U.S. Marines; H.B. Wehner, T/Sgt. U.S. Air Force.
Texas, 1948

North Dakota, 1948

Colors Introduced

Grand Lodge Procession at Opening

The Stars and Stripes and the Union Jack were presented by the
Senior and Junior Deacons, supported by the Senior and Junior Stewards. The Grand Lodge was called up as the colors were announced,
and joined heartily in singing one verse of America and God Save the
King. The enthusiasm with which these hymns was sung clearly indicated how close were the ties which unite the English speaking peoples in
these critical days in our World's history.

Minnesota, 1948

The Brethren assembled were called up by the Right Worshipful
Grand Marshal, whereupon the procession of Grand Lodge Officers,
headed by the United States flag and the banner of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Texas, with an honor guard, followed by the Most
Worshipful Grand Master and his staff, the Grand Officers and Past
Grand Officers, entered the Grand Lodge room through the main entrance, the Past Grand Masters forming in two lines, ·b etween which the
active Grand Officers, led by the Most Worshipful Grand Master,
passed in reaching their respective stations, except the color guard who
posted the colors in front of the altar facing the Grand East.

The Grand Master opened the Grand Lodge in Ample Form, prayer being offered by the Acting Grand Chaplain.
The National Colors and the Union Jack were presented by a Color
Guard, after which the "National Anthem" and "God Save the King"
were rendered on the organ.

Led by the Most Worshipful Grand Master, the Brethren assembled
joined in repeating the pledge of allegiance to our flag, after which the
colors were posted in their respective places in the Grand East.

Pledge of Allegiance

484

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Nevada, 1948
Reception of the Flag of our Country
The M.·.w.·.Grand Master ordered the w.·.Senior Grand Deacon
to present the U. S. Flag at the Altar. The Pledge of Allegiance was repeated in unison and Past Master C. L. King of Douglas Lodge No. 12
paid the Tribute to the Flag. The Flag was then placed in the Grand
. East.
TRIBUTE TO THE FLAG
Our Flag stands before us today, a symbol of hope. As we view with
alarm the uncertainties of the future, Old Glory alone appears unchanged. It stands for all that we hope for. What, then, makes our Flag
what it appears today? Is it something handed down to us by our forebears, or do we have a part in its making? If our future hopes are bound
up in the Flag, and what it represents and stands for, it must be of the
present as well as the past. Our Flag is what we make it.
Ohio, 1948

Posting of Colors
The National Colors were posted by Mt. Vernon Commandery
No. 1, K. T ., followed by the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag, after
which the members of the Grand Lodge sang the National Anthem.
Virginia, 1948
The Flag of our Country was presented at the Altar under the direc·tion of the Grand Marshal, accompanied by the Grand Senior and
Grand Junior Deacons, and the Pledge of Allegiance was given.

Illinois, 1948
The M.W. Grand Master called the Brethren to order, and in compliance with the provisions of the Constitution and By-Laws of the
M.W. Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of Illinois, opened the Grand Lodge .in ample form.

New Jersey, 1948
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.

Florida, 1949
A constitutional number of Grand Officers and representatives of
Particular Lodges being present, the Grand Lodge was opened in due
form by R:.W:.A. Wayne Connor, Deputy Grand Master, Acting
Grand Master, with prayer by R. · .R. ·. Lawrence E. McEldowney,
Grand Chaplain.

485

South Carolina, 1949, Grand Master

,

1

"As I sat back here this morning and observed the flag of the great
State of South Carolina and the flag of our Country approaching down
the aisle together, I was very deeply impressed with the thought of how
wonderful it is that these two Bags with all of the others flags of our
great nation could march together in harmonious cooperation with a
single purpose in view-the safety and security of our Country, the per. petuation of our American way of life, and the promotion of the welfare
of humanity everywhere." Can the reader find the "slip" in the above
paragraph?
(While we appreciate what "ample form" implies, we still contend
that "Old Glory" well deserves its own special paragraph.)

486

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

COMMENTS RE GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
New Hampshire, 1948 (Correspondence Report) :
Any attempt to give a clear picture of the doings of this great Grand
Lodge of ramified interests and accomplishments, its numerous Boards
and Committees, within the limits of our alloted space would be utterly
futile.
Through the efforts of their Masonic Homes Endowment Board
contributions in the amount of $186,399.55 were received. An all time
high, attesting the truly Masonic spirit of our brethren of California.

Idaho, 1948 (Correspondence Report) :
California maintains the distinction of holding the longest Grand
Communication anywher~five days. And, of course, the amount of
business transacted, the length of the committee reports. and the number of persons in attendance were quite in keeping with the magnitude
of this Grand Jurisdiction. The current Grand Officers (no DDGM's)
number 25; the Past Grand Masters present, 21; and the officers and
representatives of 552 Lodges, 1625-considerably like a meeting of the
United Grand Lodge of England.
Grand Master Chester H. Warlow, and Grand Secretary Lloyd E.
Wilson, of the Grand Lodge of California, were visitors to the Grand
Lodge of Guatemala in March, 1948, as reported in "Acacia", the official
organ of the Grand Lodge of Guatemala.

iowa 1948 (Correspondence Report):
What California does is always of interest, and what is said in their
meetings is of superior quality.
Curbed by a limitation of space, a Reviewer can only inadequately
comment rather than to amply quote.

Maine, 1949 (Correspondence Report) :
M. W. Bro. Warlow was obliged to condemn carelessness in the
investigation of applicants for the degrees, and to deprive a degree team
of the privilege of doing further work. In regard to this case, the Grand
Master said: "Masonry is not a playground. It seeks to teach wise and
serious truths, and a candidate is not brought to a realization of this
purpose if his degree is conferred in an undigni•fied manner."

Connecticut, 1948 (Correspondence Report):
The policy in California with regard to degree teams is stated by the
Grand Lecturer as follows:
"Any Master permitting willful violation of our ritual by a
degree team will be cited to the Grand Master for judgment. The
team involved will be barred from further Masonic activity for
such time as may be determined by the Grand Master."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

487

Indiana, 1948 (Correspondence Report) :
Appendant Bodies-What to do with organizations which require
Masonic affiliation as a prerequisite for membership but which persists
in violating Masonic rules of order and decorum has been a thorn in the
flesh of many a Grand Jurisdiction. During the year Connecticut and
California had to resort to disciplinary action. Ohio and California had
trouble with Masonic clubs, and each Jurisdiction sought unsuccessfully
to curb their activities.

South Carolina, 1948 (Correspondence Report):
A resolution proposed would make it possible for a Lodge to use
30% instead of the present 20% of its total revenue for refreshments
and promotion of fraternal intercourse. We have no restriction on these
matters. We permit a Lodge to spend its money as it chooses. So far we
have found no justifiable reason to interfere in such matters. We believe
in permitting as much freedom as possible to the Lodges with regard to
the use they make of their own money. The resolution was not adopted.

Idaho, 1948, Grand Lodge
The Grand Lodge was favored at this time by a very inspiring address by Most Worshipful Brother Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master
of California. This is the first time a Grand Master of California has
visited the Grand Lodge of Idaho and we sincerely hope it will not ·be
the last.
Honorary Past Grand Masters
At this time Past Grand Master Frank Knox moved that the following Brothers be elected Honorary Past Grand Masters of Idaho:
M. W. Brother Chester H. Warlow. Grand Master of California.
M. W. Brother Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master of California.
The motion was seconded by Past Grand Master Clyde I. Rush and
unanimously carried. It is a great pleasure and honor to have these good
Brothers added to our Idaho Masonic family. Similar honors were conferred upon the Grand Masters of Oregon and Utah.

Arizona, 1948, Grand Lodge
Distinguished Guest Presented and Addresses Grand Lodge
The R.".W.'.Junior Grand Warden Brother Arthur Paulsen, personal representative of the M.'.W.'.Grand Master of California, was
presented at the Altar, welcomed by Grand Master Cox, escorted to the
East and given the Grand Honors, and before being seated in the East
Brother Paulsen addressed the Grand Lodge in a very able manner,
bringing greetings from the M.'.W.'.Grand Master and the Masons
from that great Jurisdiction of the "Golden West."

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•

489

membership, and the Report of its Correspondence Committee has just
been published and sent to Grand Masonic Bodies throughout the world.
The report, which contains 306 pages bristles with important facts,
and is divided into two sections. One has to do with Domestic Freemasonry and the other with Foreign Freemasonry. Domestic Freemasonry is considered under twenty-six subjects, together with reports
from the Grand Masters of the Grand Lodges throughout the United
States of America. Foreign Freemasonry is covered in reports from the
Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries in each of the countries where
Freemasonry holds forth.

COMMENTS RE CALIFORNIA CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT
(We humbly present a few of the excerpts from observations made
by respective Correspondence Committees.}

Vii-ginia, 1948
The Report of the Correspondence Committee is exceedingly well
done. It represents an immense amount of work and careful gleaning of
the various Grand Lodge Proceedings.

East Bay Fellowship Journal, 1949
Every Mason would profit by owning one, but all officers, especially
Master and Wardens. shouldn't be without one.
What? The Report of the Correspondence Committee of Grand
Lodge.
.
The Report contains between its front and back covers the cream of
the answers to problems faced by lodges in all parts of the world.
Representatives of grand lodges all over the United States and in
foreign countries were contributors.

Maine, 1949
The massive report of the Correspondence Committee, covering no
less than 306 pages. was the result of the joint labors of Bros. James K.
Fisk, Frederick 0. Eaton, Newcomb Condee, Herbert G. Polhill. Lynn
H. Hostetter, Elwood D. Bona, and Oscar C. Olsen. In treating of our
American Grand Lodges, the topical form is followed, while foreign
Grand Lodges are reviewed as separate Jurisdictions. This exhaustive
and thorough report is deserving of the highest praise.

New York, 1948 (Correspondence Report):

Illinois, 1948
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence. submitted a very able
and instructive report. The report is in topical form and we cannot do
justice to the report in the brief space at our disposal. We urge every
reader of this review to secure and carefully study the report of this
very able committee.

Combining the topical with the particular, California's report is one
of the finest we have ever read.

The New Age, February, 1949

Washington, D. C., 1948
Scottish Rite News Bulletin
U. S. A. and Foreign Masonic Activities Shown in Report
How much does the average Mason know about Masonry in his
own country. let alone what it accomplishes around ,t he world? Or, for
that matter. how much do the officers of the average Lodge know about
activities of Masonry beyond the confines of their own town or country?
Considering that there are slightly under 28.000 Masonic Lodges in the
world, of which more than 15,000 Lodges are located in the United
States of America, and that the total membership of Masonry throughout the world is a trifle under 5,000,000, of whom nearly 3,250,000 are in
our own country, this lack of information is not to be wondered at.
However, the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of ·California set about, in 1948, to supply ·t his and sundry information for its

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

..

Grand Lodge of California Reports on World Masonry
The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California set
out, in 1918, to find out what Freemasonry around the Globe is doing.
To accomplish this end is appointed a Correspondence Committee that
consisted of James K. Fisk, Chairman, Frederick 0. Eaton, Newcomb
Condee. Herbert G. Polhill, Lynn H. Hostetter, Elwood D. Bona, and
Oscar C. Olsen.
By correspondence and numerous visitations they have assembled
a mass of information that covers 306 pages. Copies of the report have
been distributed to Grand Masonic Bodies.
There are so many apt comments on lodge matters that it is indeed
difficult to compress them into a brief review such as this, without at
the same time doing an injustice to those comments which must be omitted ·because of lack of space.
The California Correspondence Committee has every reason to feel
a wholesome satisfaction in a difficult and massive work well done,
which sheds a further bright light on Masonry for the benefit of Masonry
and the world.
S.W.

490

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IOWA, 1949 {Correspondence Chairman):
I am in receipt of a copy of the Report of your Committee on Correspondence. I am deeply obligated-it is a wonderful summary and
should be read by every earnest Masonic student. It will have a Permanent place on my desk.
You may be assured that it will have appreciative notice in my review
of the California Proceedings.
Fraternally.
s/Ernest R. Moore

491

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
The functions of the Committee on Correspondence can be traced
back to Revolutionary days. In order to maintain contacts between the
various Colonies committee3 were appointed for this purpose. and afterward this procedure among Grand Lodges was adopted in order that the
members might be informed of what was transpiring in the different
jurisdictions.
The Chairman, or Correspondence Committee of any jurisdiction,
after reviewing the Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges, perhaps is
in a better position to give to the Craft what has occurred during the
preceding year. Extracts from the forewords of the chairmen of a number of jurisdictions, some of which follow, are perhaps the best index as
to what is taking place in Masonry at the present time.
-Jesse M. Whited, California Chairman, 1940.

Utah, 1948
My "Five-Foot Shelf'
At the beginning of the year-if one really has a beginning-since
the reading and noting and writing continues right along regardless of
the month. But we might say the beginning is when the Grand Lodge
accepts the MSS at its regular communication and a new set begins to
form. They make a far more interesting flve-foot shelf than one where
the same book rests in the same spot year after year and there is no
growth. Here throughout the year new voluumes come to hand and in
them-new writers are met, old activities are treated in a new manner.
new problems are discussed and so they take their places in the line.
One marvels at the closely knit kinship of the men whom we call
Brethren, whatever their nationality, or color, or faith, or the language
they speak. And yet it really is no marvel, no accident, no miracle, it is
that Spirit of Masonry which we are taught leads to the more perfect
life for all -mankind.
To have and to hold that which uplifts. to reach higher ourselves: to
increase the desire in those around us to spread that vital appeal for a
Universal Peace among mankind. To handle anew in forgotten and forbidden places the faith that Truth, that Forbearance, that Desire for
Universal Friendship, that is our Duty, our Privilege, and our Reward.

Idaho, 1948
The Chairman of this Committee reviews a large number of the
Proceedings of Grand Lodges around the world. This is a fascinating
task, and one that lasts all through the year. The mass of printed

492

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

volumes, pamphlets, and letters that rolls in from the Grand Secretary's
office to the Foreign Correspondent is appalling, and his work, like that
of the traditional housewife, is truly "never done". His duty is to use
selective eye and present reviews that are interesting, and long enough
to cover the subject. lt is a great privilege and a great responsibility.
Only occasionally, however, does one encounter a blessed soul, who expresses appreciation for one's efforts and says that he reads the Reviews
not only a miraculous once, but actually three times! May his tribe grea~
ly increase.

New York, 1948
The labor of your committee is over for another year. Though it is a
heavy task to study so many volumes of reports, the rewards are great.
However divided the Craft may be in respect of the borders of sovereign Grand Jurisdictions, the truth remains that in all spiritual senses it
is one. The problems of one Grand Lodge are pretty much the problems
of all. It is our belief, after pursuing this assignment for several years,
that we American Masons are essentially one Brotherhood, united in
loyalty to the great underlying and fundamental teachings of the Fraternity.
Iowa, 1948
I call this report to your attention not because it is the production of
my mind and pen, but because it will carry to you a broader knowledge
of what your great Fraternity means, because it will carry a reflection
of the thought that is manifest in so many widely separated parts of the
world, ·because it will give you the expression of that thought, sometimes in words that will touch your heart and bring to you not only personal but spiritual solace and comfort, because it will inform you on the
trend of the thought of Masonry of the present day and permit you to
make comparison of the days long past.
With the report in your hands, though, a book you can take home
and read in the quiet of the evening when your labors of the day are
done, and your mind is at rest, and ·b oth mind and soul are receptive
to the principles of Masonry, you may get it better than I could give it
to you here. However, while I have appreciated the privilege of doing it,
let me remind you that it meant much work. If you will read the book that
is before you, and multiply that by the 64 jurisdictions whose Proceedings I have read, you can figure how much Masonic service goes into the
preparation of this book.
New Jersey, 1948
There is inspiration in reading the record Masons have written in so
many Grand Jurisdictions. To him who wishes more light, is commended

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

493

these reviews of some seventy Grand Lodges. This year there appears
a topical review in addition to one for each Jurisdiction. If you would
improve yourself in Masonry you will read and thereby be compensated.
We realize we only can put this "food" before you and remind you that
it is not entirely indigestible. Take it for enlightment, for information,
for use, for the glory that is in the Craft.

Tennessee, 1948
The report of M. W. Bro. J. Rice Williams, Grand Lecturer is a gem.
He feared the tendency he found in Brethren 40 to 50 years of age to
tum the work over to what they call "young men" would result in disaster. His advice is so sound we quote a portion-

" Permit me to sound a note of warning, even fear, over this trend.
You have NOT done, and you are NOT now doing, your part, unless
you are willing to serve until such time as qualified men, regardless of
age, can be found to fill the stations and places.
"Neither youth nor age qualifies anyone for office in a Masonic
Lodge. Extreme youth, either biologically or masonically, certainly disqualifies one for the office of Wors~ipful Master. It takes years of observation and study to imbue one with the ground work, usages, customs, and Landmarks of the Institution. Until thus imbued, the tendency
of youth is to regard the Institution as just another club. What it has
taken centuries to build may easily be wrecked by placing the Fraternity
in the hands of masonically immature Masters.
"Freemasonry is distinctly and definitely NOT a club. Freemasonry
is an Institution in that it has from time immemorial stood for the highest principles of mortality and virtue. It is founded on enduring principles
which must go down through the ages, if Masonry is to survive. Its landmarks are unchangeable. If Freemasonry should ever be modernized,
streamlined, it would cease to be Masonry and would soon go the way
of so many organizations that follow the current trend. In the beginning,
its business, when in Lodge assembled, was transacted with dignity and
decorum.
"The tendency of youth, until seasoned, is to be iconoclastic, to look
for something new. Let us set ourselves solidly against the idea of elevating to the East the bright young man who 'learns the work' before he is
grounded in the true Principles of Freemasonry. It is as important, if not
more important, that we 'Shall transmit unimpaired the true Principles
of Freemasonry to posterity as that we shall keep the Ritual pure."
... " 'Tis true, 'tis pity;
And pity 'tis, 'tis true."-Hamlet.

494

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

proper meaning. Our Fraternity is a Craft and its ceremonies are Work.
We must remember that work is ennobling. An Order is an asso~iation.
A Craft is something more than an Order, because it inculcates and
teaches a mystery. The word craft means skill and power, or the unexplained ability by long ·practice, to produce a desired,result. Therefore,
a Craftsman is one skilled in the mysteries. The petitioner is the rough
ashlar in its rule and unfinished state. The Lodge, by its Craftsmanship,
should work upon him until he becomes, through the practice of our
virtues, a perfect ashlar.

FREEMASONRY-AN INTERPRETATION
"Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!)
Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace,
And saw within the moonlight in his room, •
Making it rich and like a lily in bloom,
An angel writing in a book of gold,
Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold,
And to ·t he presence in the room he said,
'What writest thou?' The vision raised its head
And with a look made of all sweet accord
Answered, 'The names of those who love the Lord.'
'And is mine one?' said Abou. 'Nay, not so,'
Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low
But cherrily still and said: 'I pray thee, then,
Write me as one that loves his fellow men.'
The angel wrote and va_n ished. The next night
It came again, with a great wakening light,
And showed the names, whom love of God had blessed,
And lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest.''
-Leigh Hunt, 1859

Mississippi, 1948 (Grand Lecturer) :
It is easy for a Master not grounded in the tenets of the Institution
to be a Masonic wrecker and not a Masonic builder. Let us ponder the
words of the poem, comparing the builder with •the wrecker:
I watched them tearing a building down,
A gang of men in a busy town.
With a ho-heave-ho and a lusty yell,
They swung a beam and the side wall fell.
I asked the foreman, "Are these men skilled,
And men you'd hire if you had to build?"
He gave a laugh and said, "No, indeed.
Just common labor is all I need,
I can easily wreck in a day or two
What builders have taken a year to do."

Mississippi, 1948 (Grand Orator):
"Before the questions, What is Masonry? and What is ·t he secret of
its power? I stand amazed and silent. My soul echoes the query: What
is this experience that kindles aspiration for moral and spiritual excellence in the midst of our dull, drab lives, and gives us a devine sense of
eternity in time, Perhaps the true spirit of Masonry is indefinable, illimitable. Can you put a rim around the perfume of roses, Or fence in
a spring breeze blowing through an apple orchard? Or imprison the
glory of a sunset? Or sculpture the harmony of a mockingbird's song?
Or record in mere words the sweet, ecstatic fancies of a lover's dream?
Or measure the pulses of suffering love and vicarious sacrifice of a
mother's prayer? No. These are imponderables. They are realities that
have little or no relation to the precise instruments of scientific enquiry.
They are psychic, personal-they are vital, creative soul-values.
"This is true of Masonry. Its light is never seen on land or sea, but
in the mind. Its greatest secrets are not in the ear but in the heart. Its
spiritual realities of truth and righteousness are inarticulate, indefinable.
After all our nicely turned phrases are uttered there remains a margin of
mysticism that ·baffles speech.

Missouri, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Freemasonry is sometimes wrongly referred to as an Order, and its
solemn rites as a .Ritual. But perhaps these terms do not convey the

495

I thought to myself as I went my way,
" Which of these roles have I tried to play?
Am I a builder who works with care,
Measuring life with the rule and square,
Am I shaping my deeds to a well-made plan,
Patiently doing the best I can,
Or am I a wrecker who walks the town,
Content with the labor of tearing down?"

North Carolina, 1947 (Grand Master):

..

Let us always look toward the hills from whence cometh our strength,
and by living our belief in the Brotherhood of Man prove our belief in
the Fatherhod of God. Masonry is made up of Masons; it is what Masons are! it is and will ayways ·b e judged as Masons live it. This we do
by erecting, day by day, our moral and spiritual edifices agreeably to
the rules and designs laid down by the Master Workman, the Supreme
Architect of the Universe, remembering always that "To be good men
and true is the first lesson we are taught in Ma~nry."

496

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

lodge room and find companionship and courage. There is something indefinable in Masonry I can find nowhere else in the world. Familiar as
I am with Masonic ritual it continues ever fresh and ever new. Always it
seems to me, as I hear it repeated, I catch a new thought or a new inspiration and a new grip on the eternal truths of life.
Masonry has greatly enriched my life; it has given me friendships
that I cherish dearly. It has, I think, whispered subconsciously to me in
silent hours words of caution and encouragement.
I like going back to my Lodge. I have found it refreshing and good
to step aside out of the path of my busy life and sit again with the Masons who have carried on in my absence. To this experience I come
gladly and joyfully, as a boy returns again to his old home which he
left to seek his fortune. Still some of the old brothers await to welcome
me. Grown a little older I find them, but still strong and eager for the
duties of a Mason- With them I can be what I so often long to be-just
one of the Craft. Their aprons and mine are made of the same cloth;
their dreams and mine are similar; their pulses beat the same inspiration,
and we are all at peace.
Rich and poor, high and low make no difference there. The pomp of
life is thrown aside. Only that which is important counts.
Masonry has taught me the follies of petty distinctions and the shame
of pride and place. I am grateful to it for this.-Edgar A. Guest.

Illinois, 1948 (Grand Master) :
The great truth is that God IS, that He lives, that the destiny of the
world is in His hands and our Hands; that all mankind are His children
and are blessed .with His love.
Kansas, 1949 (Grand Orator)
The Holy Bible is our First Great Light. It points out the whole duty
of man. In it we find condensed in the Golden Rule (Luke 6:31) the lesson of the Compasses: "As ye would that men should do to you, do ye
also to them likewise." That was written in ·t he 75th year of our Lord.
But long before tha~. man had caught the spirit of brotherly love. Five
hundred years before Christ, Confucius wrote: "What you do not want
others to do to you, do not do to others." Isocrates said in 375 B.C .•~
"Do not do to others what would anger you if done to you by others.
It is safe to say that every philosopher of the past, whose writings.have
been deemed worthy of preservation, has expressed the same sentiment
in different words. The Book of Common Prayer of 1662 put it this
way: "My duty towards my neighbor is to love him as myself, and do
to all men as I would they should do unto me." But Edward Markham
brings us up short with his pithy remark: "We have committed ·the
Golden Rule to memory; let us now commit it to life."
Arkansas, 1948 (Grand Orator) :
What is the Word? We find in the Masonic funeral service an allusion to a certain 'pass' whereby we may obtain entrance into the Grand
Lodge above. We are told that this pass is 'the pass of a pure a~d blameless life.' The symbolism is perfect. Now we know why we will have to
be .c ontent with a substitute, because on earth we will not attain the
Master's Word, 'the pure and blameless life.' If we cannot .attain, why
seek? Because in the very seeking for the Master's Word, a pure and
blameless life', we come nearer to it. Like the cathedral spires of Gothic
architecture, which point upward although they never reach heaven, we
find that in our seeking after perfection, we come nearer and nearer
~~

Iowa, 1948 (Grand Lodge Bulletin) :

To the Young Initiate

'

J. Otis Ball, in "Little Masonic Library", Vol IV, pp 199-200.

Scottish Rite News Bulletin, 1949
What Masonry Means to Me
I take great pride in my Masonry. I was received into the Craft almost a quarter of a century ago and am sure today I have not exhausted
even the smallest vein of its richly laden ore.
It is a source of help and comfort and pleasure I can absolutely rely
upon. When I have wearied of other labors I can tum confidently to my

. 497

l

The Masonic Fraternity seeks no control over processes of government and the enforcement of the law, and as an organization, it takes
no part in the solution of industrial and social problems except through
the influence of its teachings upon the character and conduct of its
members.
The primary ·p urposes of Masonry are to enlighten the mind, arouse
the conscience, stimulate the noble and generous impulses of the human
heart. It seeks to promote the ·b est type of manhood based upon the
practice of Brotherly Love and the Golden Rule.
When these results have been accomplished the mission of Masonry
has been achieved.
Throughout the ages Masonry has taught and advocated the principles of free government, free speech, and freedom of religion. Masonry
has undertaken the education of free men and devoted itself to the ideals
of Toleration, Liberty, and Justice.
In those lands and under those governments that thrive upon tyranny, oppression, and dictation, Masonry has been condemned: Masons

498

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

have been persecuted and imprisoned: Masonic lodges have been closed,
and their properties and archives confiscated and destroyed.
Masonry's history is replete with struggles against tyran~y, ignorance, and superstition. Its principles and ideals are deflected m the free
way of life enjoyed by every Canadian and any effort to destroy the free
institutions of this country is an attack upon Freemasonry.
The "free" in our historic name stands for and means something
very difficult to express in simple terms-it does refer to a way of life.
-Courtesy of "Masonry in Manitoba."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

499

GOOD AND WELFARE

Minnesota, 1948 (Grand Master} :
Fraternal Assistance at Rochester
Important among our Masonic service is the special work of this
Grand Lodge at Rochester on behalf of those who come here from every
corner of the globe to take advantage of the healing arts of the great
Mayo Clinic. From year to year, without any true comprehension, I have
listened to reports on the continuing work of Bro. Frank G. Warner, our
representative there. In reviewing his monthly reports throughout the
year I was amazed at the extent and variety of his activities.
During 1947 alone he contacted more than seven thousand new
arrivals. On an average day he makes about thirty personal calls on
patients and receives others at his office. For these patients and their
families and friends he writes and receives numerous letters and telegrams, arranges for ambulances and wheel chairs, finds rooms and
hotel accommodations and renders a variety of services too numerous
to review.
All of these services are rendered in the name of our Grand Lodge.
It is a most unselfish Masonic activity, freely given on behalf of our
Brethren from other Jurisdictions, the truest expression of the fundamental precepts of our Fraternity. Their worth is attested by the hundreds of messages of appreciation received by Brother W amer on his
own and our behalf.

Arkansas, 1948 {Grand Master) :
Mack Valentine
For more ·t han 30 years the cook at the Masonic Home at Batesville
had been a negro man, Mack Valentine. He was one of the most dependable and best loved employees the Home ever had, which is manifested by the boys and girls who were reared in our Home wanting to
know about him the very first thing when they return, either to the
Home or to the office of the Grand Lodge. At no time was he ever paid
more than $80.00 per month, which made it impossible for him to accumulate any savings. Now that we have closed the home and because
of his age and some physical handicaps, he has had a hard time making a
living.
Grand Master Stockburger, upon learning of his plight, directed the
Grand Secretary to give assistance to Mack when it was necessary, as
he did not want an old and faithful employee of the Grand Lodge to
suffer after he had given the better part of his life in our service. This
has been done and when these conditions were made known to me I
directed the Grand Secretary to continue the policy of giving Mack
Valentine such financial assistance as is required to keep him from suffering.

501

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Arizona, 1948 (Grand Lodge) : ......
.Resolution .Re Separation of Church and State
1. It is the unequivocal policy of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of Arizona to oppose with every
means at its command the use of money collected as taxes by any
political sub-division of any city, county, or state or by the Federal Government as payments(a) to any person or organization for the purpose of teaching
religion in any public school of the United States
( b) for transporting to or teaching in any private or parochial
school in the United States
( c) for assistance of any other kind to private or parochial
schools in the United States
It is the unequivocal policy of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of Arizona to seek, at all times, by every
means at its command to make effective the complete separation of
Church and State in the United States in the firm belief that only by
such complete separation can that liberty, equality, and fraternity, for
which Masonry stands, be attained.-( Unanimously Adopted.)

Tennessee, 1948 (Grand Master's Edict) :
Welfare Committee.-There shall be a standing committee of the
Grand Lodge, composed of all Past Grand Masters of this Grand Lodge
while they continue members in good standing of Subordinate Lodges
under this Jurisdiction, known as the Welfare Committee, whose duty
it shall be to formulate policies and recommend plans or legislation in
the interest of the advancement of Freemasonry, and to which shall be
referred all matters not germane to the specified purpose of any other
standing committee.

500

Colorado, 1948 (Grand Lecturer) :
The Hat/
It is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain the type of hat generally worn by the Masters, that is the silk variety, and I am coming to be
more and more a believer that this type of headgear should not be worn
unless the officer is properly clothed for same: and such proper clothing
is formal attire.
I find that some Masons appear to believe that it is a Grand Lodge
regulation that this formal hat should be worn by the Master. They are
wrong. no such regulation exists. There is a regulation that the Master
should be covered while presiding. but it is inferred that it will be in
accordance with common sense and good taste.
Maine, 1949 (Correspondence Report) :
The Grand Lecturer of Colorado takes exception to the wearing of
the traditional tall silk hat by Masters who are not also wearing formal
evening dress. He advocates the wearing of headgear appropriate to the
other clothing worn. He mentions the ultimate absurdity of a tall hat
worn with a military uniform! We have always rather liked the old top
hat within the precincts of a tyled lodge room, regarding it more as a
symbolic article of regalia, like the Colonial cocked hat worn by the
Grand Masters of Massachusetts, than as a mere item of haberdashery.
But that vision of a silk hatted soldier almost converts us to his positio:QI

When Fortune Smiles/
Nebraska, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Every lodge should take advantage of the plentiful supply of money
during this period of infiation to build up a reserve fund. They may be
compelled to buy or build a new Masonic Home in the future. This is a
good time to prepare for such an emergency by starting a building fund.
Every lodge would do well to accumulate a reserve fund of reasonable
size for unexpected emergencies.
Kansas, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Nearly every lodge in Kansas is out of debt. A few owe on their
buildings. but in nearly every case indebtedness has been reduced so
that little or no financial burden is involved. Lodges which owe money
are making special efforts to clear their indebtedness in these prosperous
times. This action is nothing more than good common business sense:
getting your house in order for more difficult times which probably lie
ahead.

(

Maine, 1948 {Grand Master):
Many lodges have shown an active inteFest in money-ra1smg
methods. This interest is most commendable, and I regret that I have
been unable to approve numerous suggestions which have been made.
The position of this Grand Lodge regarding so called .. gift enterprises,"
"fairs" and public entertainments to replenish the treasury or to furnish
halls was firmly stated in Grand Lodge Proceedings, 1883, page 510.
I quote from those Proceedings: "Gift enterprises are gambling enterprises, and fairs. as generally conducted, are little better.
"Better it is that the Lodge surrender its charter than live by promoting gambling: better, also, that every member die than aid in diffusing
the spirit of gambling in the community. We are aware that it may be
said that some churches raise money that way. We hope not. If so, they
must do as they may. We are not their judges. But a lodge must not
forget that there is a god."

502

503

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

In Time of Disaster

dent to rebuild and no hall in the town is available for lodge meetings.
The rainy day came for that lodge most unexpectedly, but they had
neglected to accumulate a surplus which might have been done if the
members had valued their Masonry more highly and had acted accordingly.
Several cases in which a member or his widow in failing health with
their resources exhaustea. have been presented to the Grand Master
during the year for his advice and assistance in providing for them, since
they were not eligible for admission to the Home at Sullivan. In some
cases the prospects for a long term of costly assistance could 'be expected: the lodge could help in a small way and for a short time only: then
what?
These are days when lodges should be putting their financial house
in order by collecting dues commensurate with the high value of Masonic
membership.

Massachusetts, 1947 (Grand Master):
As has been our custom for many years, in the event of a possible
catastrophe facing a particular section or the entire jurisdiction, our
entire service organization has been alerted each time a threat of .a
possible hurricane or fire damage was apparent. We were fortunate in
every instance this last year to have had no serious damage develop
along either of these lines.
Indiana, 1948 (Grand Lecturer) :
We have had several serious disasters in the nature of fire and windstorms this year and several of our Lodges have suffered great losses.
It would be prudent for each and every lodge, immediately, to study
their insurance situation and take steps at once to correct any and all
present insurance policies so as to be adequately insured in case of loss.
All Lodges can afford to pay the necessary premium year by year to
maintain adequate insurance coverage, but no Lodge can afford to pay,
on its own, the cost of replacement when a full loss is sustained.
Hendricks County Tornado
A tornado of serious proportions struck the communities of Coatesville, Hadley and Danville on Friday evening, March 26, 19~8. .
After a thorough discussion of the situation at Coatesville 1t was
decided that Grand Lodge should assist the members of Co.atesville
Lodge in relieving their immediate requirements.
Three members of the Lodge were killed: three or four others are
in a hospital. critically injured. The wife of one of the members lost
her life.
Louisiana, 1949 (Grand Master) :
Relief to Cotton Valley Lodge
I am happy to report that, through a dispensation issued to District
Lodge No. 2 to solicit funds for Cotton Valley Lodge, whose hall was
demolished by tornado, the lodges throughout the State helped Cotton
Valley in their rebuilding campaign. Approximately $8,000.00 · was
raised for which the Masons in and around Cotton Valley are very
gratef~I. and your Grand Master was well pleased in the manner ~n
which this contribution was made. To this your Grand Master again
says that the Love of your fellowmen is a vital part of Freemasonry.
Illinois, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Every lodge should accumulate yearly 8: surplus to be put aside. for
the proverbial rainy day. Within the year JUSt passed a cyclone wiped
out the physical property of one of our lodges: they have no funds suffi-

t

Washington, D. C., 1949 (The New Age):
Investigating Committees
Here, perhaps, is the weakest link in the entire Masonic chain. After
a petition for the ( Masonic) Degrees is received, the first test the candidate must pass is the inquiry of the Investigating Committee. Approved
by this committee, only a dark ballot will prevent his initiation into the
Lodge. Once in, about all that will get him out is nonpayment of dues.
Expulsion is very rare. Having taken him, the Lodge is stuck with him.
Obviously, therefore, the responsibility of the Investigating Committee is grave indeed, and in the proper discharge of this duty the skill
of a biographer, the integrity ol a saint and the wisdom of a judge are
required. Because of this, members selected to serve on these committees should be chosen with care. Preferably, they should be brethren
little if at all acquainted with the petitioner to avoid any possibility of
bias, consciously or unconsciously exerted.
Frequently, visits to the petitioner in his home are omitted entirely,
and this is one of the gravest mistakes made by an Investigating Committee. Other inquiries will develop what his reputation is and has been.
Skillful interviews with the man himself in his home will go far to reveal
what' he actually is and thinks. Much can be learned by observation
alone. Attempted discussion of Masonry would be pointless since he
knows nothing of it. But adroitly managed discussion of subjects with
which Masonry is concerned, such as religion, government, neighborliness, duty, faithfulness to obligations, charity, education and selfcontrol, will bring out the required facts. When all that has been learned
is assembled, the investigator who has served honestly will know
whether or not the petitioner is worthy and well qualified. And to
discover that is the high and vital duty of each and every brother
appointed on such a committee.-The Masonic Chronicler.

5(}4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Utah, 1948 (Grand Orator):
No doubt it is true that some men seek membership in our Order
because of the fellowship and conviviality that we enjoy at our Lodge
meetings. Good fellowship and conviviality are excellent things. There
is nothing intrinsically wrong for men to join an organization solely for
the purpose of having a good time, but if a Mason's interest is only in
this he performs no good by reason of being a member of the craft,
although from a personal standpoint he perhaps gets immense benefit.

Missouri, 1947 (Grand Master):
Blackballing
During the year my attention was called to a distressing situation
which existed in one of our Lodges. For a considerable period some
misguided member seems to have felt that it was his duty to blackball
every candidate who petitioned the Lodge, with the possible exception
of a single one at long intervals. I set my District Deputy to work on
the case and through his tact and good counsel. accompanied by a
solemn warning if the evil continued, he was able, at least for the time
being, to effect a cessation of the practice and, I hope, permanently.
If certain refractory members of a Lodge persist in a policy of wholesale blackballing and persistently ignore well-meant and timely warnings
from the Grand Master or his District Deputy, there seems to be but
one logica-1 course to pursue and that is to arrest the charter. That drastic
remedy has been applied a number of times in the history of our Grand
Lodge and can be resorted to again if necessary.

Louisiana, 1949 (Grand Lodge) :
The Lambskin Apron
WHEREAS, many candidates coming into Masonry go no further
than the Entered Apprentice or the Fellow Craft Degree:
AND WHEREAS, such candidates sometimes have no need for
a Lambskin or White Leather Apron in the future and are not entitled
to all its rights:
AND WHEREAS, many Master Masons do not have their aprons
properly inscribed as to date of initiation, passing and raising:
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that hereafter the apron
shall be presented to an Entered Apprentice Mason at the time of his
initiation as formerly, but same shall remain in the custody of the Lodge
until such time as the candidate shall have received the Master Mason's
Degree, at which time the dates of his initiation, passing and raising
shall be properly inscribed and attested to and the apron presented to
the candidate.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Committee on Work be
authorized and directed to make any necessary adjustments in the
monitor or ritual to conform with the action directed by this resolution.
(ADOPTED)

505

Virginia, 1949 (Grand Master):
Membership and Attendance
There are a number of worthy men who have been dropped from
our rolls by the way of dimits or through the non-payment of dues. I
request you to appoint a committee to review the records of your lodge
fo~ the past ten years, and endeavor to bring back into our membersh~p those f~rmer members. It has been my happy privilege to help
bring back mto membership numbers of these men, and I have seen
m~ny of them manifest a new appreciation of Masonry. The committee who has this responsibility in charge should be very carefully
~elected. 1:'- personal visit will show these men that your lodge is
mterested m them and that you believe in extending a helping hand.
There is no substitute for personal work in :building up our attendance and good fellowship at stated and special communications.
I urge every Master and Warden to select at least ten names from
the roster of his membership with whom he is not personally acquainted, and to make a pecsonal visit to each of them, telling them of the
w~rk his lodge
d~ing, and urging their attendance. You will enjoy
this work, and 1t will result in muc;:h personal satisfaction to you, and
I hope a great blessing to your lodge. In the larger fodges, this work
should ·b e extended to the Deacons and other officers.

!s

North Carolina, 1947 (Grand Master):
Newly Made Masons
When a man receives the Sublime Degree of Master Mason, we
congratulate him, slap him on the back and tell ' him how glad we are
to have him. He comes to the lodge a few times after that and nobody
pay~ him an~ attention. He then finds somewhere else to go, and I
don t blame him. Just after a man has been raised to the Sublime Degree
of Master Mason, he is imbued with the spirit and purpose of Masonry,
and wants to help do something about it. That is the time that we
should see that this interest is directed toward Masonic activities, and
not all~w the newly made Mason to drift away. He should be given
something to do. He should be given instruction in Masonic law and
procedure. He should be directed toward te proper kind of Masonic
reading, he should be made to feel that he is a Mason among Masons.
If he is inclined toward ritual. he should be given something to do in
degree work. If not, he should be given something else to do, and
there are plenty of things to do. By so doing we make of a newly made
Mason a working Mason instead of a mere dues paying Mason.

(A worthwhile job for Past Masters.)

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oklahoma, 1949 (Grand Master) :
I hope you Masters that are here will appoint a social committee for
the purpose of encouraging home visitation, home parties, home association of the ditferent members of your Lodge so they can get together
outside the cloistered halls of the Lodge and mingle with each others
f amities and know each others wives and children as you should know
them.

Indiana, 1948 (Grand Lecturer) :
Grand Master's Letters
Starting last June your Grand Master wrote a series of monthly
letters to our Worshipful Masters. The letters were intended to be
classified as informative news letters trying to acquaint the Worshipful
Masters with the day-by-day developments in their Grand Lodge and
trying to build in the minds of the Worshipful Masters an apprecia·
tion of the value and magnitude of their Grand Lodge and hoping to
generate a friendly spirit of co-operation.
County Group Meetings
The Grand Master advised the Worshipful Masters of the State
that it was his opinion that a series of meetings held with the Lodge
officers throughout the State of Indiana prior to our annual Grand
Lodge meeting in May, would be very beneficial to all concerned.
The attendance at these various meetings was excellent. Of the
538 Lodges in the State, 480 or 89% of the Lodges were represented
with 83% of the Worshipful Masters, 66% of the Senior Wardens,
65% of the Junior Wardens and 60% of the Secretaries. We had a
total attendance of 1,842 exclusive of Grand Lodge officers. Our largest
meeting was 222 and our smallest was 52.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

507

In considering the Applications for Reinstatement your Committee
particularly stresses the following facts:
Age of applicant, number and age of dependents, Number of years
in good standing, number of years suspended, financial responsibility
and health of applicant.
We therefore urge that the subordinate lodge see to it that all questions in the applications be answered fully, and that any correspondence
relative to the application be attached thereto, and submitted to the committee for their consideration, so that intelligent judgment may be rendered, also in the case of employed persons we would suggest that the
nature of their business or commodity dealt in, should ·be plainly speci•
fied. Adopted.

Wisconsin, 1948 (Grand Lodge):
Report of Committee on Methods of Election Used in Other

Grand Lodge Jurisdictions
It is our firm conviction that our system of the secret ballot is sound
because it follows the democratic principal of voting as we have come to
know it. While some objection might be made to the time spent in
balloting, it has been our ex·perience politically that when we give up a
right, we have lost it forever. Accordingly and as a part of our Masonic
citizenship we should not adopt our politically apathetic attitude and
deny this matter of voting the time it deserves. Further, and by the
secret ballot the Grand Lodge will be in position to elect the best officers
without prejudice or pressure and that in and of itself justifies its retention. If additional time is needed for the business of the Grand Lodge,
then the Communication should be extended rather than doing away
with this priceless prerogative by some unhappy and unfortunate reform.

Nebraska, 1948 (Grand Lodge) :
Reinstatement
Your Committee on Applications for Reinstatement, advisory to the
Gtand Master, respectfully reports that during the year 1947-1948,
three hundred seven Applications for Reinstatement were referred to
your Committee.
The combined ages of the applicants amounts to 17,172 years, and
the average age approximately fifty-two years. Four were between
thirty and forty years of age, sixty-two between forty and fifty years,
one hundred forty-three between fifty and sixty years, sixty-nine between sixty and seventy years, twenty-four between seventy and eighty
years and ·five between eighty and ninety years.
.
The reasons given for permitting suspension were for the most part
"financial," while a few showed the cause as "negligence" or "not being
permanently located."

Illinois, 1948 (Grand Master):
Discipline
This word, when it is spoken, creates an unpleasant reaction in one's
mind: it implies that a violation of an established standard has occurred
which was of sufficient gravity to merit a punishment commensurate
with the offense.
In our organization the responsibility for the exercise of discipline,
when required, rests upon the officers and lodge members, and the Grand
Lodge Officers, especially the Grand Master. It often is an unpleasant ·
responsibility, yet it is one that must not :be evaded upon any pretext.
Freemasonry teaches a respect for and obedience of the law, both civil
and moral: our field of discipline has to do especially with the moral,
and our own codes.

508

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Preservation of Records

Unfortunately men are received into our lodges who have little or
no regard for either; they have not assimiliated into their souls the
lessons of morality and virtue as exemplified in our degrees: the¥ ~re
Masons in name only. Therefore, there arise conditi~ns when d:Isc1plt~e
must be exercised, otherwise our leaders would be gmlty of closing their
eyes to violations of the teachings of our Fraternity and of the c!vil law.
It is the responsibility of every master to rule and govern his lodge
under all conditions. Far too often some brother usurps the conduct
of the lodge affairs because of a lack of courage, strength and leadership
on the part of the master, and the lodge becomes a one man organization.
This condition need never be tolerated in any lodge: it should never 'be
allowed to exist.

Missouri, 1948 (Grand Lodge) :
The Report of Missouri Lodge of Research
I also must urge, as I have so many times in the past, that every
Masonic body in Missouri see to it that its records are stored in vaults,
where they will ,be safe from fire and vandalism. These records contain
much important Missouri history. All need to be preserved. Without
them good history-important history-will be lost forever.
And now let me say again that the objects of the Missouri Lodge of
Research will not be accomplished until the history of every Masonic
body in the State has been carefully written and made available to any
and all Freemasons who may be interested.

Committee Report

Massachusetts, 1947 (Grand Master) :
In order to preserve permanently the information on the cards which
comprise the Index to the Grand Lodge Proceedings, a microfilm copy
of the cards has been made and deposited in the safe deposit vault at the
First National Bank in Boston for safe-keeping. As soon as the cards
for the current volume are typed, they will also be filmed as a unit and
sent to the bank to supplement the original film. Thus a copy of the
complete index will be available should the cards on file in the library
be destroyed in any way.

In the case of the member who made a false answer on his petition
and thereby concealed the fact that within six months he had been
rejected by another Lodge, the Committee concurs in the action of the
Grand Master and recommends that the penalty be expulsion. The
Committee moves the adoption of this portion of the report.

Tennessee, 1949 (Grand Lodge):
That any full time .salaried employee of this Grand Lod~e who ?as
reacMd the age of sixty-five ( 65) years, and who has been in full time
employment by the Grand Lodge not less than fifteen ( 15) years prior
to the retirement date, may be permanently retired, at his own request
(approved by the Employees' Retirement Board), or by order ,o f said
·
' ; · i "'l
board.
That the employee retiring
virtue of age shall be paid annuity of
two and one-half (2Yz) per cent of his highest average annual salary
as computed over and five ( 5) year period of consecutive service, plus
twenty-five ( 25) dollars, said sum to be multiplied by the number of
years of his consecutive service. (Adopted).

by

Idaho, 1948 (Grand Secretary) :

Idaho Employment Security Law
The Idaho State Legislature, during its 1947 session, amended the
Employment Security Law to read that after July 1, 1947 employn;ent
by Fraternal organizations is not exempt from the payment of contnbution on wages paid to employees.

509

r

?

Maine, 1949 (Committee on Doings of Grand Officers):
The Grand Master has recommended a School for Secretaries. It
is entirely within his authority to hold such a school if he shall see fit.
Wyoming, 1948
Committee on Returns and Work
Word has reached us that the Secretary of one of the subordinate
lodges has his stenographer type the minutes of that lodge's communications as well as prepare the Grand Lodge Annual Report. This is
contrary to the Code and we recommend that the practice be discontinued.
(May we respectfully ask who types the minutes of the Grand
Lodge-who sets the type for the printed page-or who first "reads
proofr')
Florida, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Lodge Secretaries
The Grand Master as well as every Worshipful Master knows the
value of a good Lodge Secretary. With a good secretary who is attentive to his duties the Lodge business runs smoothly, but where the
secretary is careless or indifferent to the importance of his work confusion in Lodge affairs is almost certain to result. So it is with the
Grand Lodge as it is with all our Particular Lodges.

510

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND MASTER'S COMMENTS AND TRAVELS
"When I was a King and Mason
A Master proved and skilled
I cleared me ground for a palace
Such as a King should build.
I decreed and cut down to my levels
Presently, under the silt,
I came on the wreck of a palace,
Such as a King had built."
-Rudyard Kipling

New Hampshire, 1948 {Grand Master):
A Grand Master is only one of the Brethren who has been elected
to make a sincere effort and endeavor to conduct the Masonic affairs of
the state.

...

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

511

Utah, 1948 {Grand Master):
Many Past Grand Masters were consulted through the year and
their advice was always timely. They are always ready to give of their
time and vast experience for the benefit of Grand Lodge. I am grateful
that so many Past Grand Masters found it possible to accompany me
on official visitations.

South Dakota, 1~48 {Grand Master) :
A Past Grand Master can serve his Grand Lodge very well indeed
by his vigilance while sitting quietly by and listening to what is going
on. His voice will always be listened to with respect for he is one of
the elder statesmen of the Craft and his influence cannot be measured
by committee appointments or other offices held.

Ohio, 1948 {Grand Master) :

West Virginia, 1947 (Grand Master):

Supremacy of the Grand Lodge
The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Ohio is the only
sovereign and independent body of Master Masons existing within this
Grand Jurisdiction. Its regulations, its rules, its constitution, laws, and
edicts are binding upon all Master Masons of this Jurisdiction, and the
obligation strictly to obey the same can never be lost sight of no matter
in what other Masonic or semi-Masonic activities said Master Mason
may become interested or active.
These are fundamental and long~established principles of Freemasonry. It is sincerely hoped that this Grand Lodge will never find it
necessary to exercise the plenary powers which it possesses, but it is
quite essential that every Master Mason in this Jurisdiction knows and
realizes that there is one great fundamental mother Organization to
which all Masons owe primary allegiance. Otherwise we would be
confronted with a great ship, with many rudders, in many hands.

At the beginning of this Masonic year I stated it would be to these
fine Masons I would look for counsel and advice. Many times it was
necessary to seek their aid, and each time they have given me the help
needed.

Connecticut, 1948 {Grand Master) :
Past Grand Masters
It is with a most humble sense of gratitude that I as Grand Master
pay tribute to that distinguished group of brethren, the Past Grand
Masters. Down through the years every Grand Master has realized
the value of the wisdom, advice, and co-operation of these faithful
brethren. I have been no exception and throughout my term of office
I have called on them time and time again for advice and counsel. On
every occasion they have been most willing to help, aid, and assist, never
with the slightest intention of trying to rule, govern, or dictate but
always with that fine spirit of friendliness and co-operation as though
responding to a call for service and a duty to this Great Fraternity.

North Dakota, 1948 {Grand Master):
I wish to express my appreciation of the thousands of Master
Masons in North Dakota who sit on the side lines of our Lodges. Most
of them are not honored by being elected to office, their praises are not
sung-yet they cheerfully perform the tasks assigned to them, pay their
dues and make possible the continued growth and advancement of Freemasonry in this jurisdiction. A leader cannot lead without followers
and I will ever remember with justifiable pride that for one year I was
the head of an organization whose members are of the .finest type of
American manhood.

Finances

New Hampshire, 1948 (Grand Master):
Our Grand Lodge is extremely handicapped in the administration
of the affairs of Grand Lodge by the Jµ'.~ent inadequate income. I
respectfully recommend that serious consideration ·be given to an increase
of 5 cents, at least, and I am sure that such an increase will not become
a burden on any Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction. (Adopted).

Tennessee, 1949 {Grand Master) :
I feel that many of our Lodges are still making Masonry too cheap,
and I recommend that serious consideration be given to increasing the

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

amount of the fees and the annual dues, particularly among those
Lodges in the lower brackets. Too many of our Lodges charge the
minimum amount allowed by the Grand Lodge for the three degrees,
and we hope the time will soon come when the average dues will be at
least $5.00 per year and the average fees not less than $50.00 for the
three degrees.

Montana, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Observance of George Washington's Birthday
January 19, 1948, I issued a proclamation calling for the observance
of the birthday of the Father of Our Country, George Washington.
I quote from my proclamation as follows:
"There is needed in this country a revival of understanding of the
fundamental principles of the American Republic; there is needed for .
the preservation of the institutions of the American Government a more
complete historical knowledge and a renewal of inspiration that come
from the study of those days of trial out of which this nation was born."

Dual Membership

Washington, 1948 {Grand Master) :
We feel that we have adequately taken care of a situation in which
the brother may still desire to retain his membership in the Lodge in
which he was raised, by the provisions which we have for dual membership. A brother by thus affiliating with the Lodge in the place in which
he resides, is thereby·making himself a part of the community and encouraging his brothers residing there in their Masonic activities.

The Question Box

Wisconsin, 1948 {Grand Master):
Question-Is the participation of a member of "H" Lodge in illegal
activities during a strike to the extent that he was arrested and found
guilty of disorderly conduct a Masonic offense?
Decision-Sec. 1, Art. 1, of the Trial Code, appearing on page 225
states, "The Grand Lodge cannot by a general rule circumscribe within
equitable bounds the conduct and practice of all members. It must be
left primarily with the subordinate lodge to determine in the light of the
surrounding circumstances whether any member by his conduct is, or
is not, bringing repr.oach to the institution of Masonry." That case
was referred back to the constituent lodge.
Question-Is it proper for members of the Order of Eastern Star
to serve a wedding dinner for the daughter of one of their members
in the Temple, the profit arising from this dinner to be donated by the
Eastern Star to the Masons for redecorating the lodge rooms?

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

513

. D~cision-As non~members are invited to this dinner and a rofit
is realized on the same it is not per . 'bl
h T
p
an event.
•
m1ss1 e to use t e emple for such
Question-Is it pro
f
d
.
to purchase robes for th~r ~r a. egree team i.n one of our larger cities
f the M . M . d egree1
se in the conferring of the second section
O
Decision-Our old Code u d ·
h .
.
. .
. se prior to t e issue of the present Code
ha d a d efi mte
prov1s1on against the use of t
.
paraphernalia in the conferrin of
d
s age settings, robes, or
in Art. XXXIX S
g .our egrees. However, this is covered
• ec. 2, Regulation for Lodges, of our
C d
.
that ~II interpolation, a4dition, embellishment, or deviatf::~~~m ~he
established work of this jurisdiction are forb1'dden.
e

North Dakota, 1948 (Grand Master) :

D ~h~ Int;r~atio~al meetings with our steadfa~t brethren from the
omm1on .o ana a are of great value. Several of these are held each
year at points near the Canadian border and many of our North D k
~rethren journey across the line to exchange visits with our good a. o~a
,..ors ~· the north. They are a fine type of citizens and Masons aren;~~s;
,...ana tans-may we always merit their confidence and esteem.

Maine, 1949 (Grand Master):
LodAnother vis~t to a foreign jurisdiction, although not to its Grand
ge, was ma e on ~ctober 27, 1918, when I had the honor of bein
F
.
g
guest speaker at Canadian Friendship Night t N·
No. 231, Niagara Falls, New York The a
ia~ara rontier Lodge,
·
occasion was one of the
several meeti
h 1
Hundredth Angs. e d by tThhat lodge last year in celebrating its One
b
nmversary.
ere was a fine attendance of Canadi
i:ett:;en. C?ne of the features of the evening, and evidence of the inter:
anrucversadi:>'· was the entrance of thirty-two Canadian brethren
from one ana 1an Lodge h h ·
d
of th .
1d
• w o, aving atten ed the regular meeting
.
e1r own o ge a number of miles distant, came to Nia ara Fall
in a group .to attend this meeting. The brethren of Ni·a
g F
. s
Lodge d 1·d
h·
.
gara rontier
. .
.th everyt mg possible to entertain us and we had a delight£ l
VISit WJ them.
•
u

Nevada, 1948 (Grand Master):

N~~a~a Masonry is tied with strong and true bonds to the M
of :dJoming states as is attested by the visitations of the surro::~r:ury
ges one to another. These visitations doing much to b .
thg
ges closer together and cementing them in an appreciated
e. e

..;;:,f

514

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Missouri, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Centennial Lodges
There are eight Lodges operating today that were chartered by the
Grand Lodge of Missouri in 1847 and 1848. They are as follows:
Multnomah No. 84, Oregon City, Oregon Territory: Western
Star No. 98, Benton City, California. Multnomah is now No. 1 at
Oregon City, Oregon, and Western Star is No. 2 at Shasta, California,
I attended a meeting and banquet of Western Star Lodge No. 2 at
Shasta, about six miles out of Redding, California. . They have the
original charter issued by the Grand Lodge of Missouri 100 years ago.
Their hall was erected 95 years ago and is in fine state of preservation,
The heavy steel plate shutters are still on every door and window. The
finishing lumber was all sawed and planed by hand. They had to turn
away many who were not able to get in the hall. Here I present~
them with a plaque similar to the one at Oregon City. It was also well
received. They also presented me with an engraved gavel.
On the 21st I visited a Lodge at Selma, California, where an old
cousin of mine is the senior member and past master. He was made a
Master Mason in my little Lodge 62 years ago. He has since celebrated
his 82nd birthday and also has been back to Missouri on a visit and
attended a meeting of my Lodge.

515

sion ruli~g that the portion of the Temple used by the Grand Lodge d
the particular Lo~ges meeting in the Temple was exempt from taxa~~n
an~ that the portion so used was thirty per cent of the whole building
This. resulted in bringing the taxable value of the building down to $630 ~
000 in$1945 and $665,000 in 1946. The 1947 valuation has been agreed
to as 665,000. This has brought the Grand Lodge a tax saving of
$98, 122.50 for these three years alone.

(

. This valuable decision thus obtained by our counsel is of far reaching
importance to other Masonic Temple Assocations and the like It
not appealed from, and thus, so far as the Appellate Tax Board is c::~
c~ned, the decision is, in legal parlance, res judicata, and binding on the
C~ty of Bost~n. This decision does not mean that other Masonic Temples
will au~omatically _be declared exempt or partially exempt ·merely for
the asking. Each situation must stand on its own merits. The necessary
P~~~ must be carefully prepared and presented in full detail to come
wit i~ the law. The procedure is highly technical and the law most
exacting. It .see~s, howe~er, that if the same careful steps are taken by
other organizations hous~ng Masonic bodies as those taken in the Grand
1:-<>dge case, and unless different facts bring the claims under an opposing
line of cases, there may be many Temples throughout the state which
ought and should be legally entitled to.exemption.
GRAND MASTERS CONFERENCE

District of Columbia, 1948 (Grand Master) :
In November, I went to San Francisco to attend on November 9th,
the first Centennial Celebration of California Lodge No. 1 which had
originally been chartered in 1848 by this Grand Lodge as California
Lodge No. 13.
While I was in California I was tendered a dinner by Sequoia Lodge
No. 349, of Oakland, California, at which I accepted an invitation to
be the principal speaker. About three hundred of the brethren of that 1
lod\fe were present. My many years of friendship with Worshipful )
Brother Cyril . W: McClean, Past Master and present Secretary oi
Sequoia Lodge, was responsible for this very signal honor.
During this visit I was privately entertained by Most W orshipfut
Brother Edward H. Siems, Grand Master of California, and by Wor~
shipful Brother McClean.
This journey to California, of comparatively short duration, was
one of the most enjoyable experiences of my entire life.
Massachusetts, 1947 (Grand Master} :
Important Decision Regarding Taxation of Masonic Temple
As a result of this testimony, that of our real estate expert and a
lengthy brief on the law, the Appellate Tax Board handed down a deci-

"!he George ~ashington Masonic National Memorial Association
met in1 the
T
b ·1Memorial at Alexandria as heretofore· Thi's magm·ficent
. emp e, ui t as a memorial to George Washington and to Freemasonry,
is truly a house set upon a hill, literally and symbolically Wh
1oo k upon i·ts magm·fi cent proportions, rising Phoenix-like · to Heaven
en we
we are reminded of. the Temple of Solomon around
whi'ch M asomc
· in· '
.
terests
· grad ua11y
· centers.
1 ·T hisLiMemorial is not yet completed• but 1s
nearing comp etion. ke our moral edifices, it is the Temple unfinished."

These exce~pts reflect the same enthusiastic account found in each
Grand Masters report to his Jurisdiction.

516

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONCERNING THE GRAND SECRETARIES
Utah, 1948 (Correspondence Report) :
·California's Grand Secretary Lloyd E . Wilson presents a carefully
written and detailed report. We note that 41,907 degrees were conferred,
while fewer candidates are being initiated, but that passing and raising
have been greater. Closely-set type covering some three pages, lists the
Masons who received "Fifty-Year Buttons". That represents many
years' work in Masonry.

North Dakota, 1948 (Correspondence Report):
At the outset of this review we must acknowledge, with thanks, that
our good friend, Lloyd Wilson, Grand Secretary, finally managed to get
a copy of their proceedings to us, after several years of argument, and
we are going to make the most of it, as the proceedings are full of meat
and this promises to be our longest review of the year.
(Which remark openly causes us to express our wonderment:" Where, oh! where do these annual mailings got")

Kansas, 1948 (Committee Report) :
Ohl For the Life of a Secretary!
The f~llowing are extracts taken from the correspondence that the
Grand Secretary has had with some of the Secretaries; there. are ~any
others but these will show some of the errors that can be e.as1ly omitted
with just a little thought and effort on the part of the lodge Secretaries.
The Grand Secretary writes:
"Thanks for prompt forwarding of your report. You have co.unted
1 died in the Recapitulation, but no name is listed under the heading of
Deaths. Please give us the name of the member who died, and the date.''
"Who were the three members suspended? You count three in the
Recapitulation of your report, but no names or dates listed."
"Your 1947 report closed with 53 members. You have started your
.i 948 report with 54 members. That is wrong. You must start where you
left off."
.
A letter dated January 19, 1949: "You did not reply to our letter,
January 3rd. We must close our accounts."
"You are counting one dimitted in the Recapitulation of your report
but no name or date is listed under the heading of Dimissions."
"Will you please sign your warrant and return it quickly."
"If you will give us the list of the names which belong under the
head of Degrees Conferred, together with the dates of the degrees, we
will insert them into 'the report for you."
A Secretary writes: "You are right, I neglected to change my records
last January.

517

Indiana, 1948
Master Card File
By action of the Grand Lodge (Proc. 1947, pages 218, 219) the
Grand Secretary was instructed to prepare a complete Master Card File
listing the names of all Brethren who are members of Indiana Lodges or
have been members of Indiana Lo4ges since the Grand Lodge was organized in 1818.
Cards were designed and printed, and were mailed to the Secretary
of each Lodge with instructions to prepare a complete card file of all
Brethren who were Master Masons on December 31 , 1946, and send
same to the Grand Secretary on or before November 15, I 947.
The work of checking 1946 cards is about 90 per cent completed and
approximately 60,000 cards have been filed.
The work of checking and filing will continue throughout the summer until all current cards are filed, then we shall ask the Secretaries of
all Indiana Lodges to assist in the great task of preparing cards for those
Brethren who are deceased or demitted.
·
The Master File already has demonstrated its value many times, and
you may be sure that this Wl)rk will continue as rapidly as possible
through the coming year.

Florida, 1949
The continued progress and healthy condition of the Craft in Florida
is evidenced by a net gain of 3,589 for the year. Only two Lodges failed
to confer any degrees during the year. Membership, December 27, 1948,
43,280.
Comment

(We could not find any official figures as to the number of lodges
in the Jurisdiction. For historical record may we urge each Grand Secretary to include this information in his annual report.)

Idaho, 1948
Eleven Lodges conferred 50 degrees or more and two conferred more
than 100. No. 60 conferred 166 degrees, and No. 2 conferred 114.
(Without seeming to be presumptous may we hope that the "mills
grind exceedingly fine.")

Arizona, 1948
RESOLUTION RE GRAND SECRETARY EMERITUS
Whereas we feel that. an epression of our gratitude is highly desirable,
Be It Resolved that Most Worshipful Brother Harry Arizona Drachman be made Honorary Grand Secretary Emeritus for life, and that he
continue to receive the stipened that he is now receiving. (Adopted).

518

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

such a so-called Team would be proficient in the work and I sometimes
doubt the wisdom of such activities on the part of organizations or clubs
pr groups, oth~r than regular Blue Lodges which have this important
l'fJOrk rightfully in charge and I sometimes wonder if such activity does
not at times, actually border on a violation of Sec. 87 of our Constitution.

SANCTITY OF THE TEMPLE
Pennsylvania, 1948 (Grand Master) :
There are times when we cannot but feel that there are those in our
Fraternity who have forgotten that our Temples and Lodge Rooms are
consecrated to the teaching of the great and important Principles of
Freemasonry, and therefore are not places for frivolity or fun. Our
solemn ceremonies are not intended to be just a matter of entertainment
for the Brethren in attendance. Rather every effort should be made to
create an atmosphere of dignity and reverence, and the conduct of all
present should be commensurate with, and exemplify the Sublime Truths
of the Great Light upon our Altar, and which Truths we seek to teach.
Iowa, 1948 (Board of Custodians):
Report of the Board of Custodians: "The Third Degree is not intended to be a comedy, nor should it be given for the purpose of providing amusement to those on the sidelines. Clowns in a circus are fine, and
we all enjoy them: but clownish work in conferring a degree is out of
place. Brethren, let us not debase the dignity of our profession. Let us
not convert a sublime degree into a burlesque."
Georgia, 1947 (Jurisprudence Committee):
.
WHEREAS, the Grand Master has called to our attention that
certain groups, teams and clubs have engaged in the dramatization of the
various Masonic degrees in a manner that departs, changes and deviates
from the ancient usages, customs and traditions of the fraternity.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Grand Lodge of
Georgia, F & A. M., that the above practices be and the same are hereby
disapproved and condemned and ·the Board of Custodians of Uniform
Work is directed to prevent the dramatization of the Entered Apprentice
and Fellowcraft degrees and to supervise the dramatization of the
Hiramic legend of the Master's degree in conformity with the spirit of
this resolution.-ADOPTED.
Arizona, 1948 (Grand Lecturer) :
Sometimes we have a little trouble and friction because there seem to
be so many clubs or organizations or other Masonic bodies who feel that
a part of their duties is to perfect themselves in the conferring of the
Third degree and to journey about the State a~d exhibit their prowess as
a Third Degree Team.
The question arises as to how they perfect themselves in this work:
is it in someone's home, is it behind untiled walls, do they have keys or
rituals of some kind? There must be many practice meetings before

519

{

North Carolina, 1947 (Grand Master):
PROFICIENCY IN THE THIRD DEGREE
I have given much thought to the matter of requiring candidates to
become proficient in the Third Degree, and I have come to the conclusion
that a candidate should be examined in and made proficient in the Third
Degree in like manner as in the First and Second Degrees. The Mason
will find such proficiency to be of much benefit to him should he visit
other lodges. As a matter of logic and as a matter of Masonic knowledge,
a Mason should know the Third Degree as he is required to know the
First and Second Degrees. I can see no reason to the contrary. I therefore recommend the adoption of the followi~ Regulation, which is patterned after that of the Grand Lodge of Iowa: "A Master Mason must
become proficient in the Third Degree before he can vote, hold office,
serve on committee, demit from his lodge or petition for degrees or membership in any Masonic Body of the York Rite or Scottish Rite."
Indiana, 1948 (Grand Lodge) :
Number of Candidates-Presentations

"All the ceremonies of initation in the Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master Mason degrees contemplate the introduction of only
one candidate at one time.
"Each degree shall be conferred in its entirety, including all ceremonies and lectures provided in the official authorized ritual of this
•r Grand Lodge, and all of the same shall be given and conferred in the
same session of the Lodge.
"Under no conditions or circumstances may the first section of the
Entered Apprentice degree or the second section of the Master Mason
,kgree, be conferred upon more than one candidate at the same time.
"No presentation to a candidate of any nature, except a presentation,
on behalf of the Lodge, of an apron or of a Bible, may be made until all
ritualistic work of a degree, including the lectures thereof, has been completed."

Adopted.
Tobacco Smoking in Lodge Room
The Committee on Jurisprudence has considered the Resolution
providing that "tobacco smoking is prohibited in the Lodge Room while
the Lodge is in session,"
Adopted.

520

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

521

Missouri, 1948 (Grand Master) :

Texas, 1948 (Grand Master) :
DISPENSATION REFUSED FOR OPEN AIR MEETINGS
WHERE DEGREES WERE TO BE CONFERRED
The matter of open air meetings where degrees are to be conferred
has long been a controversial question. During the year I received several requests for dispensation to hold such meetings, and each one was
denied.
South Carolina, 1949 (Grand Master) :

USE OF MASONIC HALLS
A lodge writes asking whether permission of the Grand Lodge is
necessary for the Rainbow Girls to occupy their Masonic Temple.

[

ROCK QUARRY MEETING
On Friday evening, August 27th, the 14th Masonic District held its
9th annual meeting in Wings Rock Quarry near Travelers Rest. Several thousand Masons from South Carolina and adjoining states gathered for this meeting. A rustic Lodge was arranged on the floor of this
abandoned quarry with seating arrangements for several thousand.
The significance of this meeting lies not only in the very efficient
ritualistic work which took place and inspiring addresses given, but in
its peculiar setting. One was constantly reminded of that time when
Masons were forced to meet in the lowest valleys and on the highest
hills to escape persecution and even death. Sitting in the dim light cast
by flares arranged and looking up at the starry decked canopy of heaven
one was made to feel that he need only reach out a hand to touch the
face of the Eternal.

As to the occupancy of Masonic halls by ·boys and girls organizations, there has always been much difference of opinion and in some
instances considerable friction. The great danger has been that the
sponsoring body has failed to provide proper supervision, in which instance such occupancy proves to be a liability, not only to that organization but also to the sponsoring body. It would seem that some statement
should be made as to the Grand Lodge attitude on this whole matter of
occupancy. So far as I am aware there has never been any complaint as
to the occupancy of Masonic halls by those groups generally regarded
as Masonic, and which include Chapters of Royal Arch Masons, Councils of Royal and Select Masters, and Commanderies of Knights Templar, and in most instances it has been found that these bodies pay a
proportionate part of the upkeep and maintenance of buildings, and very
often are owners of considerable stock in Masonic Temple associations.

Connecticut, 1948 (Grand Master) :
DECISIONS AND RULINGS
'

Question: Manker Grotto has a Blue Lodge Degree Team and has
conferred the Entered Apprentice and Master Mason Degrees in various
Lodges in this vicinity. The practice when attending Lodge to confer a
degree has been to enter the Lodge-Room upon invitation of the Warshipful Master in single file wearing white aprons, also the Fezzes, advance to the Altar, remove Fezzes and salute the Worshipful Master.
After introduction the visiting team assume the stations upon the request
of the Worshipful Master. Are we acting in violation of Masonic Law
and Jurisprudence?
Ruling: I cannot see that there is any violation of Masonic Law and
Jurisprudence providing the procedure followed is specifically as outlined
in your letter. In my opinion the Fez is a part of the uniform of a member
of the Grotto and it is not a mark of discourtesy to wear that part of the
uniform on being received into a Masonic Lodge, provided that the
Fezzes are removed before salutation and that they are not worn during
the business meeting or during the conferring of the degrees.

A Masonic Lodge Room should be a place of peace and harmony,
and primarily for the use of the lodge which may own, rent or occupy
it. Anything which might create friction, or where there is any appreciable objection to a joint occupancy is not a proper 'question to inject
into a lodge.

111

'

I

It would be my decision that no group may occupy a Masonic Lodge
hall, owned and operated by a lodge of Freemasons if there is any appreciable objection to a joint occupancy, or in any instance where such
occupancy would disturb the peace and harmony, of the lodge. (Italics
ours.)
Michigan, 1946 (Jurisprudence Committee) :
This Grand Lodge has never been opposed to either of the organizations named in the amendment but it has been reluctant to permit the
use of lodge rooms except by a Charter of the Eastern Star and the
Order of DeMolay for Boys, under such regulations as the lodge may
adopt. (See Sec. 4-105 Blue Book.)
We feel that the organizations in question should be encouraged, but
we recognize the fact that Freemasonry is an organization for men. We
do not believe that the use of lodge rooms by others should be extended
beyond the Eastern Star and DeMolay, and, therefore, recommend that
the proposed amendment be not adopted.

522

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Maine, 1949 (Correspondence Report) :

LODGES GET TOO LARGE

Bro. Hardtner ruled that an Eastern Star emblem could not be permanently installed in a lodge room; that lodge funds could not he used
to pay the cost of a dinner dance for members and their wives; and that a
mechanic employed by a concern operating slot machines was not eligible
for the degrees. His dispensations authorizing bingo games in lodge
dining rooms were disapproved by the Jurisprudence Committee and by
Grand Lodge.

North Carolina, 1947 (Grand Master) :
A lodge desired to put on a banquet and have tickets printed with
duplicate numbers to be sold to the members of various lodges, each
purchaser receiving a ticket which was a change on a new automobile,
to be drawn at the banquet. The lodge asked the approval of this plan.
Ruling : Approval was denied. Gambling. lotteries. games of chance,
door prizes, etc., are specifically prohibited by our law, and this is a
lottery•. and therefore gambling.

523

Pennsylvania, 1948 (Grand Master):

{

NEW LODGES
Until 1947 there were no new Lodges constituted in this Grand
Jurisdiction for a period of ten years. Going into the western end of
Pennsylvania no new Lodges had been constituted in a period of 25
years. Such a situation was most alarming as it was apparent that this
most important function had become a lost art and apparently to such an
extent that any efforts along this line were dropped.

Delaware, 1948 (Grand Master) :
LODGE MEMBERSHIP
According to the annual reports of the subordinate lodges. the membership in our jurisdiction is higher this year than in any year of our history. The total number of Master Masons is 6,463, or 309 higher than in
1930, our previous high. While we rejoice in our numbers. we must remember that the increase is due, in part, to the economic conditions that
now prevail. Therefore, we should make plans to hold our membership
when harder times arrive. One way to do this is to prevent our lodges
from becoming too large. The record shows that during the last depression lodges with 250 members or less showed a loss of 14%, while lodges
with over 250 members had a loss of 21 %. Our Masonic forebears of the
Nineteenth Century were truly builders. We have constituted only one
lodge this century. Our last lodge was established in 1902 and at that
time we had approximately 2,500 Master Masons. Today the same number of lodges is serving an increased membership of 148%.

Wisconsin, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Our one great need in this state is more lodges, particularly in our
larger centers where lodges have grown beyond one thousand in membership and the amount of degree work is becoming a task on the officers.
It is a proven fact that more lodges of smaller size enhance the real value
of Masonry, rather than allowing the lodges we now have to grow cumbersome in number.

Ohio, 1948 (Grand Master) :
I am very definitely of the opinion that a great need exists in Ohio
for more new Lodges, especially suburban Lodges in our larger communities. During the past few years a large number of the residents of
our cities have been moving to suburban districts. Lodges now located
in such districts show a splendid average attendance and a larger number of candidates.

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

District of Colwnbia, 1948 (Grand Master) :
I strongly urge upon the various lodges the desirability of seriously
considering limiting by their by-laws their membership to not exceed
500, except in the cases of fathers and sons, and perhaps nephews, of
members who desire admission. Under such a by-law the larger lodges
could well decline to accept petitions until their membership had been
reduced to this number.
Unfortunately, the formation of new lodges does not meet this situation. Most new lodges are formed by a ·comparatively small number of
brethren and, ironically, as it may seem, many of them withdraw from
smaller lodges to enter the new.
Missouri, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Large lodges necessarily have large classes of candidates, and busy
men are unable to spare time from their work to meet night after night
and day after day conferring degrees, with the consequent result of loss
of active and virile leadership. The only advantage set forth in having a
large lodge is that such organizations are enabled to have substantial
and attractive Masonic Temples, but this advantage must be disregarded
in view of the usual mortgage which hangs over such properties and
which destroys the charity of any lodge, for the money which should go
to helpless and indigent brethren is being used to pay off mortgages on
temple properties.
I would recommend that some thought be given to these large lodges
so that all Freemasons may have a chance to take part in the conferring
of degrees and bringing to the organization such leadership ?S will enable us to go forward and to accomplish the great purpose for which we
exist.
It would seem that we might well frame a law providing for the
limitation of membershp and follow out the custom of our English
Brethren, where, whenever a lodge becomes too large, a new lodge is
organized and the average lodge membership kept at a minimum figure. It has also occurred to me that there would be some value in a waiting list of petitioners, that when a lodge had reached its full quota of
membership, no further petitions would be received until such a time as
there happened to be a vacancy. Let us make the organization something
that men actually want to join, and an organization in which they will
desire to retain membership.
South Australia, 1948 (Grand Lodge):
Recommendation:-That this Conference re-affirm the resolution of
the 1925 Second Australian Masonic Conference with respect to the
limitation of candidates whch reads as follows: "That it is not desirable
that Lodges become so large in number as to imperil fraternal fellowship."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

525

MASONIC LANDMARKS
The Anderson Keystone

(

North Carolina, 1947 (Correspondence Report) :
"In devising a new and better method Dr. Anderson included in his
first Constitution only such of the physical qualifications required in the
Operative Manuscripts as would be necessary in the work of Speculative
Masonry. He did not include the terms 'have his limbs whole' or 'be of
able body' found in the old Manuscripts. Article IV simply provides that
an apprentice have 'No Maim or Defect in his body that may render him
uncapable of learning the Art', and then states the reason why a candidate should possess such physical qualifications, in these words: 'that
so, when otherwise qualified he may arrive to the Honour of being the
Warden, and then the Master of the Lodge, the Grand Warden, and at
length the Grand Master of all the Lodges, according to his Merit'.
Since it is the duty of a Master of a Lodge to set the Craft to work and
give them proper instruction, it would seem that Article IV clearly contemplates that a candidate shall not be so maimed or deformed in body
that he cannot learn, practice and teach the Ritual of Masonry. Article
IV contemplates also the equal right of all to advancement, according
to merit."

(Italics ours.)
New York, 1947 (Grand Master):
Eligibility of Disabled Veteran to Election as Master.
The question was presented as to the eligibility for the office of Master of a disabled war veteran, who had lost his right hand at the Battle
of Guadalcanal and had served acceptably as a Junior Officer of his
Lodge. The ruling on this question pointed out that under the recent
amendment to Section 346 of the Constitutions, disability to conform to
the ritual was no longer necessarily a bar to admission to the Fraternity,
that under Section 304, every member of a Lodge is eligible to every
office except that of Master, and that the only additional requirement for
eligibility to the Mastership, contained in Section 305, is that the Brother
shall have served as a Master or Warden. In holding that this disabled
veteran would be eligible to the office of Master if he had previously
served as a Warden, the opinion reads: "This is precisely what was determined by the Committee on the Condition of Masonry. * * * Any
other result in the present case would be unthinkable, since it would
amount to a negation of the principle underlying the new legislation of
Grand Lodge which, in effect, enacts that for Masonic membership and
perferment stress is to be placed on mental and spiritual qualifications
and not on mere physical."

526

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Utah, 1948 (Grand Master):
"He that runs may read"
In common with my predecessors, I could wish that Masters and
Secretaries would refer to the Code and review the Proceedings of
Grand Lodge for previous rulings before requesting the Grand Master·
for so-called rulings which are neither required or necessary. I shall not
burden Grand Lodge with an enumeration of the many requests for rulings where rulings were entirely unnecessary.

Arizona, 1948 (Grand Lodge) :
"The question as to the physical sufficiency of a candidate shall be
left to the sound discretion of the Lodge. When the candidate is unable
to comply literally to the physical requirements, the Master shall state
the nature and extent of the candidate's disabilities to the Lodge before
ballot is taken."

Delaware, 1946 (Grand Lodge) :
Following the recommendation of the Special Committee on Physical
Qualifications, the grand lodge adopted the following amendment to its
law:
"Resolved, that every candidate for Masonry shall be a man, free
born, self-supporting. of lawful age, hale and sufficiently capable in his
natural or artificial members to give the signs, grips and steps_; possessed
of the senses of seeing, hearing and feeling. and sound mind, good char·
acter and a belief in God."

Rhode Island, 1948 (Grand Master) :
PHYSICAL FITNESS
This question is one we feel should be given a broad interpretation,
and left to the discretion of the Lodge to which application is made,
considering first of all, would the applicant make a desirable member of
that lodge, even though he cannot fulfl.11 all the requirements as may
be the case in some of the fine young men who are veterans of the recent
war.

Louisiana, 1948 (Grand Master) :
PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
At a recent session of our Grand Lodge our constitution was amended authorizing relaxation of certain physiqil qualifications, candidates
for initiation may be accepted without meeting the qualifications of the
ritual.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

527 .

Many lodges have not yet acquainted themselves with this feature.
However, it is heartening to know worthy men, who for many years were
excluded from our fraternity, merely because of some physical defect
may now take their places among us, and we are really now practising
what we preach; "It is the internal and not the external qualifications,
that recommend a man for masonry." It is far better to have a man with
a wooden leg than to have one with a wooden head.
The matter of physical qualifications is up to the Masters of the
lodges and it is for them to say whether a man is eligible to become a
member of the lodge. The Master is in position to know whether the
candidate will be a burden to the lodge or to himself.

Nevada, 1948 (Grand Lodge):
NEW LAWS AND REGULATIONS
General Regulation No. 106. "All Decisions and Regulations pertaining to physical qualification of an applicant for the degrees of Masonry
be repealed, and that physical qualification under Landmark No. XI be
interpreted to mean one who can substantially conform to the ceremonies
of initiation."
"Furthermore, any Master Mason raised in this jurisdiction shall not
be entitled to vote in the proceedings of the Lodge, nor be issued a membership card, until he has passed suitable examination in the Lecture of
the Third Degree as prescribed in the foregoing paragraph of this section."

·DECISIONS
South Carolina, 1949 (Grand Master) :
Facts:
Aurora Lodge No. 33 has an application from a man who does not
have any fingers on his right hand. He has an artifical hand, is a veteran
of World War 1, served in this war in a band and used his artifical hand
to play.
Question:
Is he qualified to take the degree?
Ruling:
Yes. 1£ the artificial hand replaces the one which has no fingers.
Facts:
Richburg Lodge No. 89 has an application for a man who is deaf.
He is a good man and has no other disqualifications. This man works in
an office and can talk over the telephone.
Question:
Is it permissible to let him use a hearing aid so that he may get the
information of the different degrees?

528

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ruling:
Yes. If he can hear well enough with a hearing aid to get the information I see no reason why he should not take his degree.

PARAGRAPHS WORTH WHILE

Wisconsin, ·1948 (Grand Master) :
Question-Is it permissible for a bowling team composed of Masons
and sponsored by some independent industry of the community to use
an emblem embodying the Square and Compass on their bowling shirts?
Decision-The use of the Masonic emblem on bowling shirts is disapproved.
West Virginia, 1948 (Grand Master):
First-It is improper in this grand jurisdiction to refuse a minister
the opportunity to pronounce the benedction at the conclusion of the
Masonic funeral service.
Second-It is proper in this grand jurisdiction where the deceased
brother is a member of a Veterans' Organization, to allow the American
flag to remain on the casket during Masonic service, and further to permit a veteran to remove the flag at the conclusion of Masonic services
and present it to a member of the family. A voiley may be fired and taps
sounded.

529

THEODORE ROOSEVELT SAID ...

l

It seems to me that what this country needs more than anything else,
is to practice-not to preach only-but to practice the virtues realized
in the career of the greatest Mason that ever lived-Washington-and
pay to his memory the homage of deeds, not merely words.
One of the things that attracted me so greatly in Masonry, that I
hailed the chance of becoming a Mason, was that it did really act up to
what we, as a people, are pledged to-to treating each man on his merits
as a man. When Brother George Washington went into a Lodge of the
Fraternity,, he went into the one place in the United States where he
stood below or above his fellows according to their position in the Lodge.
He went into the place where the idea of our government was realized
as far as it is humanly possible for mankind to realize a lofty ideal. And
I know that you will not only understand me, but sympatnize with me,
when I say that my pleasure is even greater when going into some little
Lodge where I meet the plain, hard-working men-men who work with
their hands-and meet them on a footing of genuine equality, not false
equality, of genuine equality conditioned upon each man being a decent
man, a fair-dealing man.
Masonry should make, and must make, each man who conscientiously and understandingly takes its obligations, a fine type of American
citizenship, because Masonry teaches him his obligations to his fellows
in a practical fashion. It is a good thing to read the Declaration of Independence every Fourth of July; it is a good thing to talk of what
Washington and his fellows did for us. But what counts is how we live
up to the lessons that we read of. that we speak of. The lesson of
Brotherhood, first and foremost, is to learn that lesson with a full heart
on the one hand and without a weak head on the other.-/ndiana Freemason.
BROTHERS THE WORLD OVER

1

I

When the world has been plunged in savagery and superstition,
when continents have been drenched in blood, when cruelty has immured
in dungeons and stretched upon the rack the disciples of civil and religious liberty, the Masonic sign of distress has always been recognised
upon the battlefield or in the torture chamber and, with it, the kinship of
blood and brotherhood.
Chauncey M. Depew

530

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EAVESDROPPERS
Masonic tradition tells us of a punishment inflicted on members of
the Craft in the Middle Ages, when Masonry was purely Operative.
The Masons in those days, as at the present, were careful to take every
precaution to prevent their secrets becoming known to outsiders, and,
if anyone was caught listening, he was punished by being held under
the eaves of a house in rainy weather, while the rain went in at his
shoulders and out at his heels. From their punishment of the old ·
Masons, listeners have long been called "eavesdroppers."

and did not have nunrbers for the days: instead they thought of the year
as a succession of periods, most of them of a religious character, such
as Lent, and each day of the whole year had a name of its own-this
was one of the reasons why the Middle Ages needed so many saints:
they had to have enough saints to give each of 365 days a name.
Each gild or fraternity in the Middle Ages was required by law to
have a Patron Saint, which meant that on that Saint's day the gild
would take a holiday (holy day) and go in a body and in public procession to some chapel or altar dedicated to that Saint. The Freemasons of
those early times had a number of different Patron Saints, depending
on the place and the period of time, but apparently· they had St. Thomas
a Becket oftener than any other. Nobody knows when or why they settled down finally on the days belonging to the two Sts. John, but when
they did it was for calendar reasons, not for theological reasons. The
Baptist's day is the longest in the year in the sense of the most number of
hours of daylight: the Evangelist's day was not only the shortest in that
sense but was the turning point of the year when the days began to become longer, and for that reason everybody was happy to see it come.
-Iowa Grand Lodge Bulletin
HISTORIC GAVELS
The gavel about to be used by the Most Worshipful Grand Master
in the installation of Most Worshipful E. Walter Parsons, Jr.. was made
from wood taken from the sill which supported the eastermost part of
White Hall Tavern, Albany Street, New Brunswick, New Jersey,
where, on December 18, 1786, The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient
and Honorable Society of Free and Accepted Masons for the State of
New Jersey war formed.-Grand Lodge, 1948.

A "cable tow's length" is no certain number of feet or inches. Masonically. it is the distance a brother will go to relieve another's necessity.
Masonic News, Helena, Montana
And again, in the words of Charles Rann Kennedy in that memorable play, "The Servant in the House":
"It is yet building, building and built upon. Sometimes in the silence
of the night one may hear the tiny hammerings of the comrades at work
up in the dome-the comrades that have climbed ahead."
GREAT-GRANDSON OF SITTING BULL A MASON
Chief Crazy Bull. a great-grandson of Sitting Bull, the great Indian
Warrior. is a member of Suffolk Masonic Lodge No. 60, Port Jefferson,
New York. Born on the Crow Creek Reservation at Ford Thompson,
South Dakota, his American name is William Jacobs. He recently entertained a small group of children, patients of the Anaemia Clinic of the
Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. He appeared·in the full war
costume of the Sioux and gave an exhibition of the Sioux Indian war
dance, following which he gave a pint of blood, so much needed at times
by the little patients, at the Grand Lodge Room of the Masonic Temple,
71 West 23rd Street, New York City.-New Age.
RECOGNITION OF PAST GRAND MASTER COWLES
Bro. John Henry Cowles, P.G.M .. was presented at this time; his
brethren of the Grand Lodge in loving appreciation of him as a man, a
true Kentuckian and outstanding Mason rose to their feet and gave him
a wonderful ovation.-Grand Lodge, Kentucky, 1948.

Our Patron Saints
Why do we have St. John the Baptist and St. John the Evangelist?
We are not Catholics.
Until about 300 years ago the rank and file of ordinary men had no
clocks, watches, or calendars, did not think of the year as divided into
twdve months but into periods of another kind which varied in length,

531

The gavel used by the Grand Master came from the Holy Land. The
head is of stone taken from the quarries furnishing the stone for King
Solomon's Temple. The handle fs of myrtle wood from the forest near
Jerusalem.-South Dakota, 1948.
GAVEL MADE FROM WOOD TAKEN FROM BATTLESHIP
OKLAHOMA
On December 7, 1941, the great battleship Oklahoma was sunk by
the Japanese at Pearl Harbor in their ill-famed attack on our fleet. Some
time later she was raised and one of our Brethren, Captain Elvis Campbell, a member of Grant City Lodge. at Grant City, Missouri, salvaged
some of the wooden deck of that illustrious battleship and had it made
into a gavel.
At our last stated communication, Cosmopolitan Lodge voted unanimously to offer this gavel to the Grand Lodge of Texas, to be placed in
its museum, and so. Most Worshipful Grand Master, it is now my
pleasure to extend this offer to you.-Texas Grand Lodge, 1948.

532

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"IN GOD WE TRUST"
Notwithstanding this government's continuing recognition of Divine
Providence in the affairs of the nation, as evidenced by the symbolism
appearing on its Great Seal and currency, there was no direct or im# ·
mediate reference to the Deity on any of the coins of his country prior to
the year 1864. On November 13, 1861. the Reverend M. R. Watkinson,
a Presbyterian minister of Ridleyville, Pa., addressed a communication to
Hon. Salmon P. Chase, then Secretary of the U. S. Treasury Depart#
ment, calling his attention to the fact that there was no mention of God
on any of our coins. In his letter he expressed grave concern about the
outcome of the Civil War and said : "If the Republic should be shattered
beyond recognition, the antiquaries of succeeding centuries would rightly
conclude that America had been a heathen nation." He suggested as a
suitable motto for the purposes desired that of "God, Liberty, Law".
In pursuance of this suggestion, and presumably after conferring
with President Lincoln, the Secretary of the Treasury addressed a letter
to James Pollock, Esq., Director of the Mint, at Philadelphia, in which
he stated: "No nation can be strong except in the strength of God, or
safe except in His defense. The trust of our people in God should be
declared on our national coins.'' He requested the Director of the Mint
to prepare a device "with· a motto expressing in the fewest and tersest
words possible this national recognition.'' However, a law had been pass#
ed by the Congress in 1837 prescribing in detail the mottoes and devices
which must appear on subsequent coinage and consequently this faw
had to be amended before the Secretary's request could be put into ef#
feet. But on April 22. 1864, the law of 1837 was amended so as to author#
ize the coinage of two cent pieces and to place upon such coins the
motto: "In God We Trust.'' Accordingly, this motto first appeared
upon the bronze two cent pieces which were coined during the Civil
War. Thereafter, two separate acts 9£ Congress, passed on March 5,
1865, and February 12, 1875, authorized the placing of the same motto
on all such coins as admit of its inscription, with the result that this motto
has been inscribed since that time on all coinage of sufficient size to admit
of such inscription.-Texas Grand Lodge, 1948

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

533

DUAL MEMBERSHIP
Last year the Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of Nebraska adopted Dual
Membership.
Numbers of our brethren are losing contact with Masonry when
their residences are removed from the jurisdiction of their home lodges.
I hope you will impress upon them the fact that they and their brethren
are privileged to attend Masonic lodges throughout the world.
Grand Master, Virginia, 1949
"T. R." LODGE
( 1 ) Authorize a change in the By~Laws of Roosevelt Lodge, No. 229,
Free and Accepted Masons, so that Article No. 1 of said Lodge By~Laws
shall read:
The name of this Lodge is Theodore Roosevelt Lodge" No. 229,
Free and Accepted Masons of Washington."
( 2) Authorize a new seal for said Lodge bearing the proper Lodge
name and location.-Washington, Grand Lodge, 1948-Adopted.
OLD MAN WEATHER AGAIN!
The Credentials Committee was busy and ·b y 7 P.M. over 80 lodges
· had registered in, in spite of rainy weather and muddy roads. Every one
was feeling in good spirits, by reason of the needed moisture.
The road and the weather conditions of the past winter and early
spring prevented my making many Lodge visitations planned and the
acceptance of many invitations to special functions.
-North Dakota, 1949
PENNSYLVANIA LAW
Reference is made in the report of the June 4 Qu~terly Meeting of
an amendment to the By~Laws concerning the Dispensation for con~
£erring the three degrees. Ohio Masons may not all appreciate that in
Pennsylvania, by the payment of a special fee, a portion ·of which goes
to the Masonic Home, the degrees may all be conferred at one meeting.
-Ohio Report, 1948
MASONIC RESPONSE

SALES DEPARTMENT
The sales of various times to the Lodges amounted this past year to
$128,248.55-not quite as large as the previous year, which was un~
usually large and the highest on record, $134,895.95-that was due to
delivery of accumulated orders for Bibles.
-New York, Grand Lodge, 1948

"We had the experience in a little Lodge in a little city up in the
northern part of Wisconsin where a farmer, who was a Mason, had a
fire, and lost everything: lost his home, lost his barn, lost his cattle, lost
everything. The Masons of that Lodge built the home, furnished the
home, built the barn, put cattle in that barn, put feed in the barn, and
gave this Brother $1.000 in cash. and that Lodge has less than 100 mem~
hers. That is what Masonry means in Wisconsin.

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"We have another Lodge in a small town that had quite a Temple,
and still has that Temple, as far as that is concerned, and they, in turn,
when it was hard for the city fathers to obtain materials with which to
build a school, took the first floor of that Temple and converted it into
a school. They had three rooms there, and a manual training department
downstairs, and for the entire period of the war, and even after the war
this building was used as a school in this city without any charge of any
kind whatever to the city fathers.''-Junior Grand Warden, 1947

"HIGH RANKING MASONS"

TO LEARN AND TO DO
This is the soul's work here below. The soul grows, as truly as an
oak grows. As the tree takes the air and the particles that float in the air,
the dew and the rain, and the food that in the earth lies piled around its
roots; and by its mysterious chemistry transmutes them into sap and fiber,
into wood and leaf, and flower and fruit, and taste, and color, and per~
fume; so the soul drinks in knowledge, and by a divine alchemy changes
what it learns into its own substance and develops itself from within,
outwardly, and grows, with an inherent force and power like those
which lie hid in the small germ of the acorn.
-Grand Master, Missouri, 1948
MASONIC FRAUDS
During the days of the war the Masonic deadbeat disappeared from
the scene, but he has made his appearance again in recent days. The
story is always plausible till investigated. The proceedings of the
Masonic Relief Association of the United States and Canada are at
hand and in a thoughtful paper entitled, "The Schemes and Subter~
fuges of the Unworthy to Work Freemasonry," Brother Don D. Kuem~
merling, Secretary of the Masonic Relief Association of Cincinnati tells
that only ten per cent of applicants for relief are unworthy. That is
cheering news, but ten per cent can be quite a few in number and they
can defraud the fraternity from coast to coast apart from the vigilance
of Relief Boards, the prompt reports of lodge secretaries to the Grand
Secretary, and. the work of M.R.A. in exposing their schemes. A few
of them are women who have learned that Masons can be generous
to the womenfolk of deceased or unfortunate brethren. All of this is
not news to well informed Masons, but as ·searching investigation
becomes common by city boards of Masonic relief, the deadbeat alters
his tactics and preys on the lodges located in smaller towns. It would
pay lodge secretaries and others to take a hint from the Red Cross
practice and "Verify, Verify, Verify."
--South Dakota, Correspondence Report, 1948.

535

Ray Denslow orMissouri makes some very pertinent remarks about
high ranking Masons as reported in the newspapers. One is tempted
to consider that the newspapers are not always to blame for such char~
acterizations of Potentates, Exalted Prophets, and others. In some
parts of South Dakota the press makes use of the actual wording sub~
mitted for publication. After paying his tribute to the Grand Master
in each jurisdiction as the only high ranking Mason, Ray continues
in the following happy vein: "And in our own way of thinking there
is nothing higher in Freemasonry than that brother who throughout
a long and useful life has lived according to the teachings of the fra~
ternity: who may not have ·held a position of responsibility, yet who
has made it a part of his life to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, bind
up the wounds of the afflicted. Upon his breast may hang no jewel fit
to grace the diadem of Eastern Potentate, around his form may hang
the simple unspotted apron of the fraternity, yet the life he has lived,
his treatment of a brother, the widow, and the orphan, may have been
such as to write his name on the topmost round of the ladder. • . Such
a man has the true word of a Master Mason."
MASONIC BEQUESTS
By the will of the late Alice Mabel Steinbicker, of Wheeling, West
Virginia, the Masonic Home was made the residuary legatee for the
purpose of building a swimming pool in memory of Brother Edward L.
Steinbicker and their son, Edward Melvin Steinbicker.
After a suit in chancery instituted by the executor in the Circuit
Court of Ohio County, and after the sale of the properties under decrees
of the Court and the payment of specific bequests, there was paid to
your Board of Trustees the new sum of $23,030.55, which was accepted
subject to the provisions of said will and is now held .by the Treasurer
of the Board in a special fund for the purpose stipulated in said will.
-Grand Master, West Virginia, 1948.
LARGEST ORIENTAL RUG ONE MAN'S GIFT TO
TO MASONRY'S WASHINGTON SHRINE
On February 22, 1948, Mr. Sarkis H. Nahigian, a prominent Mason
of Chicago, presented the George Washington Masonic Memorial
Temple at Alexandria, Virginia, a priceless Persian Meshed Shrine rug,
with the prominent Masons from 48 States present to pay tribute to the
Father of our country.
Mr. Nahigian said in part:
" It gives me pleasure to donate to our beloved George Washington
Memorial Building, the largest Persian Royal Meshed carpet I have ever

536

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

known. It is one of the largest hand~made oriental rugs ever shipped
out of the Persian Empire, as it is approximately 50 feet long and 30
feed wide, containing over 54 million hand-tied knots.

Gift of Appreciation
"As to texture and workmanship, it would be impossible to reproduce
such a carpet under present economic conditions, just as it would be
impossible to secure master weavers to weave such rugs as you have now
in this shrine. I donate this carpet in grateful appreciation of all the
unlimited privileges and friendship and support I have enjoyed in this
blessed United States of America, and not among the least of these is
my privilege of being a Mason. It is also an expression of what George
Washington, and what he stands for, mean to me personally."
Rug 30 by 50 Feet
As indicated by Mr. Nahigian in his speech, the dimensions of this
rug are approximately 50 feet long and 30 feet wide, containing over 54
million hand~tied knots of the finest spun wool yarn. To weave a rug
like this would require years of careful and patient work by 12 artisans,
sitting side by side, along the width of a mammoth hand loom, tying
knot after knot on the warp threads with the various colored yarns in
the hands of the weavers under the direction of a master artisan, so that
not a single knot is misplaced. Thus they weave on, a line at a time, day
after day, which turns into months, and months become years until the
creative work is completed. This Meshed rug of untold beauty and imposing grandeur, displays a magnificent medallion in the center of a
luscious rose field. In the four corners of the field are placed outstanding
decorations complementary to the impressive medallion which has classic
ornamentations of scrolls, lotus and other flowers. The many wide and
narrow borders give to the entirety of the rug a majestic air of splendor
which overwhelms the observer's aesthetic senses.
About Mr. Nahigian
Harpoot, Armenia, was the birthplace of Mr. Sarkis H. Nahigian.
In 1890 he left his beloved Harpoot as a young man and set foot in the
United States penniless, but possessing a stout heart, together with an
admirable determination to make the most of himself in a land of plenty.
The young man landed on the east coast and for a few years labored
in a shop in Providence, Rhode Island, until the West lured him.
-Armenian Mirror-Spectator, 1948.
36 Acres of Ground
The George Washington Masonic Memorial Temple was completed
in 1925 at a cost of 4Yz million dollars. It is nine stories high and with
its beautiful geographic surroundings covering 36 acres, makes a very

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

537

imposing picture at the top of historic Shooters Hill. It is only six miles
distant from the Capitol City and the Washington Monument, Lincoln
Memorial. Capitol Building, Jefferson Memorial and other buildings of
distinction can be seen clearly on a pleasant day. Mount Vernon, the
historic home of the first President of the United States, is twelve miles
distant and it was in Alexandri_a that he spent most of his lifetime. A
temporary statue of George Washington stands in the niche of the
Memorial Hall and some day soon will be replaced by a beautiful marble
one, depicting him presiding at a meeting, with Apron intact and Gavel
in hand.
Brother Nahigian has answered the sound of the final gavel-"For
in the Love of God, there are comings and goings, but no death."
"Forenoon and afternoon and night ... Forenoon,
And afternoon and night, Forenoon and •.. what7
The empty song repeats its self. No more7
Yes, that is life: make this afternoon sublime.
This afternoon a psalm, this night a prayer,
And time is conquered, and thy crown is won."

538

539

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC LIBRARIES

An illuminated sign indicating the location of the library was in·
stalled recently.

Librarian's Report, 1948
A Mile of Books
The Iowa Masonic Library fills the four floors of one building and
the two floors of another and yet is everywhere crowded for space. If
these books were placed on one shelf, it would be 60,000 inches long,
or 5,000 feet, which is only 280 feet less than a mile.
If this mile of books went past your own front door, you could find
in it the answer to almost any question that could be asked about Freemasonry. You would find some of the answers in English, French,
German, Spanish, Hebrew, Latin, Greek, Dutch. Italian, Russian,
Arabic, and, in a few instances, in little-known tongues of the Far East,
because during the past two centuries our Craft has established itself
almost everywhere: and wherever it has been, Masons have written
books, or booklets, or magazines about it.
But even if that mile of books passed within three feet of your door,
it would do you little good, because you would not be able to find anything in it. How could you? Even if you knew the title and author of a
book, it would take you a long time to hunt it down; usually you would
not know the title and author but would have only some question or
subject in mind. The information would be there, within view, inside
of some book, but what book? Book titles themselves tell little about
the contents of a book.

Rhode Island, 1948
We now have a library of which we are very proud. All of the books
have been arranged in due form according to the modern method of
library cataloguing and have been placed in the room adjoining the
Grand Secretary's office. A card index has been typed, is ready for use,
and as every book has been numbered, it now becomes much easier
for one to obtain the book or information he wishes,

Utah, 1948
The library, located on the ground floor of the Masonic Temple,
adjacent to the office of the Grand Secretary, is accessible to all members during the week and its cases and shelves are well filled with
excellent books and current publications from many parts of the United
States and some foreign countries. Many valuable volumes of Masonic
history and writings of Masonic Historians and Students are to be
found. There are also many volumes of periodicals containing articles
of value and interest that have been fabric bound to better preserve them.

.,I

Massachusetts, 1947
I should like to take this opportunity to inform the Brethren in
Massachusetts that the Grand Lodge maintains an up-to-date Library
for their use and pleasure and that it ranks as one of the four or five
outstanding Masonic Libraries in the United States. There are approximately 45,000 volumes in the Library on all phases of Masonry and
related subjects, and they are arranged and classified in such a way
that any volume can be readily located. Many volumes are available
for circulation. Some of the more valuable books are accessible for use
only in the building. These include the rare books, reference works,
such as Proceedings and periodicals, and other books which can not
be replaced.
Early in the summer we were asked by the Navy Department in
Washington, and also the First Naval District in Boston, if we would
be willing to exhibit some of our John Paul Jones memorabilia during
the period when the bicentennial of his birth was to be observed throughout the country.
The following are a few of the items which were chosen for display:
Flint-Lock Pistol carried by Jones during the American Revolution.
Illuminated .Water-Color Coat-of-Arms used by John Paul Jones.
(Of particular interest to Masons as it contains the square and compass.)
Facsimile of Application of John Paul Jones for Degrees in Freemasonry in Scotland.
Copy of Miniature Portrait of John Paul Jones in color, on porcelain or metal.
Log-Book containing Memos of Correspondence between Jones and
others.

Grand Master, 1948: The Lodge Library
There should be a permanent Committee on Masonic Library and
Museum in every lodge of import, charged with the responsibility of
intelligently building a library which would be of benefit to the Masons
of North Carolina. They should be further charged with the duty of
preserving priceless relics and documents pertaining to the Craft.
A Department of Archives in Grand Lodge should also be established for the many valuable Masonic documents and records in the
possession of our lodges. They are vulnerable to varied means of destruction. I frankly think that most of our lodges possessing such documents and records would welcome a safe place in which they might be

540

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

preserved-a repository, so to speak. Title to such items would not
vest in Grand Lodge. They would remain the property of the lodge
depositing them. The ravages of time have taken a heavy toll of our
Masonic records. We should do all within our power to preserve them.

MASONIC PUBLICATIONS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

541

Grand Lodge authorizes its continuance, all efforts will be directed to
further refining its organization. Plans are under way to seeking to
improve its content and general make-up.
During the short time that the publication has been in existence,
hundreds of letters of commendation have been received. While some
do not like it, apparently, it has many friends.

Iowa, 1948 (Grand Master) :

Texas, 1948 (Committee Report):

Grand Lodge Bulletin
Many flattering comments have been made regarding the quality of
this publication. Our present mailing list is over 10,000 copies each
month, and the interest still seems to be growing. For the information
of the Craft, we remind you that we maintain our own mailing department for the Bulletin. We operate our own addressograph and are thus
able to control and perfect our mailing list.

Grand Lodge Magazine
We have continued to publish the Grand Lodge Magazine, which
has been made possible through the courtesy and kindness of so many
Masons in Texas, and more particularly the District Deputies, Masters,
Wardens and Secretaries who have assisted us in gathering news and
pictures throughout the year. We still believe that the Magazine, carrying the Grand Master's message each month and the many fine articles
which we are permitted to publish through the courtesy of other publications throughout the Masonic world, presents the best medium for
the dispersing of Masonic information to the members in Texas. We
still think that the Masters of the Lodges will derive much benefit and
increase Lodge attendance and interest if one or more of these articles
are read at a stated meeting each month, and informal discussion engaged in by the members as a whole concerning the article or articles
so read.

Wisconsin, 1948 (Grand Master)
Wisconsin Freemason
This publication, now in its fourth year under the able guidance of
our Past Grand Master, Most Worshipful Brother George F. Lounsbury, is serving a great need to the Craft. Its circulation is rapidly
approaching the point of ten thousand copies per month, or one out
of six in this Grand Jurisdiction is receving a copy.
It affords to the Grand Master an opportunity to keep in closer touch
with his brethren, and gives to the officers of all lodges excellent read;..
ing material and Masonic thoughts for them in turn to pass on to the
members of their lodge.

Indiana, 1948 (Grand Master):
The Indiana Monitor and Freemason's Manual, prepared and published by authority of Grand Lodge under the supervision of a special
committee, has been enthusiastically received by the Craft. The first
edition was released for sale at the meeting of Grand Lodge last year.
A second printing was immediately necessary and to date more than
21,000 copies have been sold. Invaluable to the newly raised Master
Mason as a Masonic textbook, it is suggested that all Craftsmen can
receive much of the further light they seek through a diligent study of
the new Indiana Monitor.

New York, 1949 (Grand Lodge):
Masonic Family Magazine
This publication is now, as to the matter of publishing and editing,
one .o f the established or regular routine functions of the Board. If

Kentucky, 1948 (Grand Master):
Masonic Home Journal
The official organ of the Grand Lodge is the Masonic Home Journal.
It is one of our greatest assets and a medium of publication that the
Masons of Kentucky should use.
The printing plant and the Masonic Home Journal are second to
none in their respective fields. They are capably managed and edited.

Nevada, 1948 (Grand Master) :
I have had duly impressed upon me by letters received from various
members of the craft and conversations with others of the importance
of the Monthly Bulletin put out by our good Worshipful Grand Secretary to the various Lodges and Grand Officers without cost to them,
and it seems to me that provision should be made for the publication
of this Bulletin and an increase in its size. This Bulletin, while doing
a good job at this time, can be made a great deal more valuable in
bringing the various Lodges closer together and the various Secretaries
should act as reporters and supply the editor in 'chief of the high-light
actions of the Lodges.

542

543

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

New Mexico, 1949 (Grand Master):
New Mexico Freemason
The change made this year in the matter of publishing the New
Mexico Freemason has been satisfactory. As you know, it is now being
managed from the Grand Secretary's office. The Grand Secretary
states that his greatest difficulty is in securing from the subordinate
Lodges a correct mailing list. Let me urge the Lodge Secretaries to
keep their mailing list up to date so that every member of our jurisdiction may receive a copy regularly. And when possible, send also
a few notes, at least. of the activities of the Lodge and other affiliated
organizations. The Lodges like to know what the other fellow is doing.
and for the non-resident members. it's like getting a letter from home.

tions of the Grand Lodge. but because I doubted the wisdom of such
procedure. And especially, in view of the increased cost of running
the Grand Lodge. the Masonic Home. and our other activities.
A magazine is an expensive thing. It requires payment of salaries.
It requires the service of skilled employees. It requires an editor.
There are few competent Masonic editors. I am sure the Grand Lodge
does not desire to go into the publishing business for the sole purpose
of providing jobs. and especially when it would mean an increase of
$1 in per capita tax. Commercialism has no place in Freemasonry;
to print a magazine without advertising would mean additional expense. Whenever the Grand Lodge engages in solicitation of advertisements we are on the road to commercialism.

Pennsylvania, 1948 (Grand Master):
In my contacts throughout the Jurisdiction through visitations to
the subordinate lodges. it was most surprising how poorly informed the
Brethren were on matters which should have been known to all. It is
therefore a proper conclusion to make. with the evidence at hand, that
the Grand Lodge should have a medium of service to the entire membership, and it is the R. W. Grand Master's desire that a Grand Lodge
publication be authorized and published under competent authority
and distributed to all the members of the subordinate lodges.
Oklahoma, 1948 (~rand Master) :
It is the considered opinion of your committee that a general publication wholly Masonic in character, reflecting the activities and the
ambitions of Oklahoma is .a must on the list of objectives for Grand
Lodge consideration.
(The report was afterwards adopted as a whole.)
Montana, 1948 (Grand Master) :
The Helena Masonic News
Like a welcome friend. this little publication of Bro. William C.
Campbell. Senior Warden of Helena Lodge No. 3, comes to us bringing the news of our lodges and brethren.

Missouri, 1948 (Grand Master) :
A Masonic Magazine
At your last annual communication I was authorized to appoint a
committee to go further into the question of printing a magazine for
distribution among our membership.
I have not done so, not because of any desire to avoid the instruc-

Now R.ead OnWe have a source of information for Masonic matters. I refer to
the "Masonic World" which is written for the Grand Lodge by Past
Grand Master Ray V. Denslow. It covers every conceivable subject
in which a Freemason could be interested. I have just concluded the
reading of the 1948 report and marvel at the information it imparts.
No one can read this report year after year without becoming fully
informed on things Masonic. The unfortunate thing about the report
is that it is available to so few. For that reason I have asked that an
additional supply be printed for distribution at Grand Lodge.
(Correspondence Chairman Denslow's annual thesis on global
Masonry always wins the "blue ribbon" of applause from his brother
reviewers. We, too, regret that this masterpiece cannot have wider
dissemination.)

544

way of thinking, is all rooted in the past. Therefore, I say that we must
never forget the great importance of the past to all of us. And you
veterans here represent to us the great value and importance of the
past, and so we welcome you here. We greet you. We hope that you
may be here next year, and many more years to come.

RECOGNITION OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE
One of the highlights of this committee's extensive review has bee!1
the heart-warming recognition so widely accorded our veteran Masonic
Brethren.
We wish it were possible to repeat on these pages the expres~ive
words of Grand Masters and their aides as they paid homage to these
veterans, now approaching the sunset of life, after their long and faithful servi~e in our Masonic Vineyard.
The following excerpt from the Proceedings of the ~rand Lo:Jge
of Montana (1948) is typical of this worthy program so richly manifest
throughout our Masonic world:
Reception of Veteran Masons
The Grand Master asked the Grand Marshal to introduce and welcome veteran Masons. Veterans of sixty, fifty and forty years were
escorted to the East, and the Grand Master first addressed them as
follows:
THE GRAND MASTER: Brethren, I remove my hat, because I
stand before the veterans of this institution.
Brother J. H. Repass, I understand you have come a long way to
receive a designation which the Grand Lodge of Montana has voted
for every veteran Mason in its jurisdiction. It is a great pleasure for
me, as Grand Mastei;, to place upon your lapel this little button which
signifies that you are a veteran Mason, and I trust that through the
years you will not forget this ceremony. In addition to this little
insignia, it is my pleasure also to present to you this certificate, which
alleges that you are a veteran of Montana. God bless you.
I will ask our Grand Marshal to welcome you.
THE GRAND MARSHAL: M. W. Grand Master, distinguished
visitors, members of the Grand Lodge, and you well beloved veterans:
I deem it a great privilege indeed to be asked to extend a welcome to
you, as well as the greetings and felicitations of the Grand Lodge of
Montana. We are certainly happy to' have you all here. We love and
respect you. All the younger Masons look to you for information, for
education. Your long experience as Masons is worth a lot to the
younger Masons. Your knowledge of the landmarks of Masonry, the
history of Masonry, the standards of Masonry, everything that goes
to make our fraternity great, is of mighty value to all of our younger
members. Masonry is a progressive science. We have our eyes fixed
on tomorrow. Tomorrow to all of us is the most important thing in the
world after today, and we are indeed looking to the future. But let us
not forget the importance of the past. Everything that we are, everything that we enjoy materially, everything in our lives, our liberties, our

545

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•

The following figures will furnish a cross-section view of this now
universal award, as well as add impression to the mind of the affectionate regard in which these patriarchs of our fraternity are held.
No. 50-year Awards
Jurisdiction
17
( 1947)
Florida
Dist. of Columbia
24
( 1948)
142
( 1948)
Iowa
115
( 1949)
Kansas
58
(
1948)
Nebraska
62
New Hampshire( 1948)
11
(1948)
Idaho
12 ( total: 81 7 )
(1948)
Louisiana
35 (total: 335)
( 1948)
Montana
466 (total: 5014)
(1948)
New York
North Carolina ( 1946)
315
( 1948)
Ohio
58
Rhode Island ( 1948)
40
South Carolina ( 1949)
39
( 1949)
Tennessee
23
Sou th Dakota (1948)
18
Wyoming
( 1948)
53
Texas
( 1948)
120
Wisconsin
( 1948)
209
California
( 1948)

No. 25-year Awards
288

2500 ( 1939-1949)
21
817 (total: 7432)
781

*
**

Twenty-five Year Button
Arizona, 1948 {Grand Lodge) :
The committee has completed its assignment, selected a sterling
silver button of suitable design, made a survey of the number of such
emblems required by the Constituent Lodges, and have obtained prices.
The number of buttons required up to October of last year total
1952 with many more to be added to this number in 1948-1949-1950.
The price quoted on this button, ordered in lots of twenty-five
hundred is a little less than seventy-three cents per button plus the
Federal Excise Tax of 20%.
Your committee recommends this report be adopted; that the Grand
Secretary's office order and stock the buttons and supply them to the

546

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Constituent Lodges as ordered by them through their secretaries only:
that an order be placed for 2500 buttons, and that the Committee on
Finance include in the budget the sum of $2184.00 to purchase same.
-Adopted.

Connecticut, 1948 (Grand Lodge):
The Committee on Twenty-Five ( 25) Year Buttons respectfully
reports and recommends as follows:
(a) A design and type of a Twenty-five year butto.n ~ursuant
to order of this Grand Lodge at its last Annual Communication was
obtained and adopted by this Committee.
( b) Some Six Thousand Twenty-Five Year Buttons were distributed by the Constituent Lodges this past year.
( c) The Craft has received these buttons in a ~ost favorable
way and the presentation of these buttons has materially increased
attendance at Lodge.
After a year's experience it is recommended:
1. That a committee be appointed by the incoming Grand Master
to revise the present and adopt a more suitable certificate to be presented to recipients of the Fifty-Year Button.
2. That the presentation of and the Twenty-five year certificate
be dispensed with, and that the Resolution passed at the last Annual
Communication be amended by deleting said requirements. (Adopted).

Georgia, 1948 (Grand ·Lodge) :
The fifty and twenty-five year Service Buttons are .one-half inch
in diameter and circled by a recessed wreath of acacia. They ~re
constructed in three levels. The Fifty-Year Buttons have a wide
enameled border with the square and compasses in the center irradiated in gold with a blue background between the letter G and the
Square and Compasses, the button being of Gold. The. t~enty-flvt
year button is of silver with a blue enameled border and similar center
except that it is in silver.

Kansas, 1949 (Grand Master) :
In 1939 repeated requests came to the administration to ado~t
and provide an intermediate decoration for those who started their
Masonic life too late to hope for a gold button. A duplicate of the
design of the Fifty Year Emblem was adopted and made of sterling
silver with the inscription reading "Twenty-five Years Kansas A. P.
& A. M." About 2.500 of these have been secured and sold to lod~es
to · compliment their members and encourage their continued service.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

547

Kentucky, 1948 {Grand Lodge) :
We recommend that Regulation 163 be amended by providing that
no assessments be charged against a lodge on members who have
been awarded a fifty-year button in accordance with the provisions of
Regulation 163-A so that Regulation 163 as amended shall read as
follows:
"Reg. 163. Lodges are exempt from payment of Grand Lodge
dues on free members, but not from assessments; provided, however,
no assessments shall be charged against a lodge on members awarded
a Fifty-Year Button in accordance with the provisions of Regulation
163-A."

Ohio, 1948 {Grand Master):*
Thousands of the "Twenty-five-year Sterling Silver Lapel Emblems" were presented by many of our Lodges. This is a fitting recognition of constancy for a quarter of a century, and merits the expression
of gratitude by the Lodge and Grand Lodge for such a meritorious
service. May the presentation of medals and emblems become the
established practice of e:very Lodge in the Jurisdiction at least once a
year and every member of each Lodge be urged to be present and the
congratulations and felicitations be so heartfelt and sincere the occasion will be long remembered by all present.

South Carolina, 1949 {Grand Lodge):**
"The Twenty-five-year Button, of the design already approved
and adopted by resolution of this Grand Lodge, shall be awarded
through Lodges only to those Brethren of their fellowship who have
had twenty-five years' continuous or accumulated active service. Such
buttons shall be presented only by or through the Lodge in which the
recipient is in good standing as an active member.
"The Fifty-year Button shall be presented similarly, to those who
have been Masons fifty years or more, and who are in good standing
in their respective Lodges.

Virginia, 1948 (Committee Report):
We heartily approve of the Grand Master's action in providing
25-year buttons and making them available to the lodges as a meanf
of recognizing long and faithful service.

549

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC EDUCATION

Mason~c i~struction. To date more than 700 of these bulletins have
been distribute~ to ~10 Lodges. They are mailed without charge and
your request will bring any or all to your promptly.

Texas, 1947 (Committee Masonic Education):
"Turning to the newly made Brethren, if a man is good enough to
be made a Mason then certainly he should be made a 'good Mason..
The making of a good Mason does not stop with the conferring of the
Master's degree. It is only the beginning of a good Mason, and to
these newly made Brethren we owe the responsibility of properly
instructing them as to the designs that are and have been drawn on
the trestleboard. He should be. and it is our responsibility and duty to
see that he is truly and correctly informed as to the proper use of the
Square, the Compass, the Level. the Plumb Line, and the Trowel. If
we fail in this respect, we not only do an injury to the newly made
Brother, but we are injuring ourselves."

Illinois, 1948 (Committee Masonic Infonnation):
That. printe~ material be prepared and made available to all Lodges
for use m candidate instruction as they progress through the various
degrees.
That a pla~ be outlined for Lodge Study Groups, and suggestions
made as to subjects and materials to be used.
. That each Lodge be encouraged to acquire its own Masonic
Library, and that the books be made readily available to all members
of the Lodge.
(Italics are ours.)

548

Dlinois, 1948 (Grand Master) :
The Schools
The plan the Grand Lodge has followed many years of providing
ways and means by which Lodge Officers and members who are interested in the Ritualism of Masonry, was again followed during the year
by the holding of our Schools of Instruction.
'
T~ese Schools were in charge of a very proficient Board of Grand
Exammers: they proved themselves most thorough in the presentation
of the work.

District of Columbia, 1949 (Grand Master) :
We shall ask for greater masonic education in our lodges. It should
not be enough that a candidate travels through the degrees towards
the light. He should be back attending the lodge on succeeding communications for a review and explanation of the work, a historical
background of masonry and a working knowledge of our Code.
In fact it is a wholesome thing for all members to receive a periodic
review of the landmarks of masonry. It will have a more binding
effect on each one.
Masters of lodges are accountable for the attendance not only of
their officers but · for the individual members of their lodges at the
Grand Lodge School of Instruction, especially on occasion of the exemplification of the degrees.

.c!
Indiana, 1948 (Committee Masonic Education):
Instruction Booklets for Candidates were made available to the
LQdges last fall. They have been enthusiastically received. Their
purpose is to give valuable information to the candidate when his mind
is most receptive, as he passes through the degrees. Four booklets
comprise a set. They are titled, "On the Threshold.'' "The Entered
Apprentice," "The Fellow Craft," and "The Master Mason" and sets
may be obtained in any reasonable quantity by the Worshipful Master
or Secretary-WITHOUT CHARGE. Simply send your request to
the Committee chairman. More than 10,000 sets have already been
distributed to almost 400 Lodges.
Last September your Committee also made available a series of
instructive bulletins designed to assist in building interesting educational programs. Each was directed toward some specific phase of

I
,

Texas, 1948 (Committee Report):
We are overlooking a serious responsibility when we fail to give
t~ the new~y-r;iade Brethren some of the simpler and elementary facts,
hi~tory, principles and tenets of this fraternity. Many Brethren you
will find do not even know the official titles of the officers of a Lodge.
Many do no~ understand how to vote in a Master's Lodge. Many have
never. be~n ~nstructed. as to the serious responsibilities that rest upon
~hem i~ signing a mans petition to be made a Mason or how to properly
investigate one who has already presented his petition. Many do not
attend the Lodge through timidity, feeling that they do not know how
to pr.operly i?in in with the other Brethren who are present at a tiled
me~ting, feeling some embarassment and hesitancy about returning to
their Lodge. These and many other things which these Brethren are
eager and anxious to know of and desire to be further instructed in are
of the utmost importance, and the vast majority of these newly-made
J!rethren. woul~ gladly welcome and appreciate further and additional
interest in their education as to all of these simpler things concerning
~he Lodge, Freemasonry and the Grand Lodge if someone well versed
in these matters would take the time to instruct them.

550

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP C.:ALIPORNIA

551

Deleware, 1948 {Committee on Work}:
The recommendation adopted last year requmng candidates to
qualify in the Master Mason Catechism, within a period of sixty days
after which their regular membership card is issued, has proven to be
very satisfactory.

THE HORIZON OF FREEMASONRY
"The people who do not revere the deeds of their ancestors will
never do anything to be remembered by their descendents."
-Macaulay

Virginia, 1949 {Grand Master}:
North Dakota, 1948 {Grand Lodge} :
Amendment to By~Law Adopted
That to the first sentence of this By~Law there shall be added the
following "and until such brother shall have received such certificate
of proficiency, he shall not be deemed in good standing, nor shall he
be entitled to a dues card, nor shall the secretary of his lodge be permitted to issue any certificate to the effect that he is a member in good
standing."

North Carolina, 1947 {Grand Master}:
District Meetings
A District Meeting was held in each of the forty Districts by the
Grand Master and the Grand Secretary. A conference was held in
the aftP.moon with the officers of lodges. Such conferences were well
attended and of considerable benefit. These conferences were devoted
in general to Masonic law and procedure, rules and regulations and
matters which the Grand Master and Grand Secretary thought necessary to be called to the attention of the Craft. The time at these officers'
conferences was divided between the Grand Secretary and myself: the
Grand Secretary devoting his attention primarily to the work of Secretaries and I talked with the officers respecting general policies and
purposes. I spoke at evening sessions of each of the District Meetings.

Utah, 1948 {Committee Report):
A survey of the types of programs had in the Lodges during the
past year indicates that exactly 50% consisted of papers or talks by
Lodge members on Masonic subjects as compared with only 5 % of
such talks or papers by visiting brothers. The reading of talks and
papers sent out by the Grand Lodge Committee comprised 20% while
an additional 15% consisted of the reading of Masonic Service Association Bulletins and the remaining 10% consisted of papers and talks
by members on non-Masonic subjects.

O~r Grand Lodge is the oldest independent Grand Lodge in
America and holds a high and honorable position among the Grand
Lodges of the world. The Grand Master's jewel, as you know, was
originally offered as the badge of office to Brother George Washington,
who declined the office on the grounds that his duties in the Continental Army at that time would not permit him to carry out the duties
of the office. Most Worshipful John Blair became our first Grand
Master, followed in office by James Mercer, Edmund Randolph, John
Marshall, and a host of other brethren who have handed down to u~
a great heritage.

Iowa, 1948 (Grand Master, Missouri}:
One hundred years ago we sent a Charter to the Pacific Coast, to
what was then known as Oregon Territory, but the Charter now rests
in Bellingham, Washington. Also the same year we sent a Charter
into California, to a little place known then as Benton City, now Shasta,
California, close to Mt. Shasta.

Washington, 1948 {Grand Master) :
It is interesting to note from whence Masonry came, and how it
came into the Northwest. We, of course, trace our Masonry back to
Missouri, because the first charter was brought from there. Nevertheless two of the Lodges in Oregon received their charters from California. Willamette Number 2, and Lafayette Number 3. California
received its first charter from Missouri, she also received charters
from the district of Columbia, Connecticut, Virginia, Ohio and
Illinois.
The first Lodge that was chartered in Missouri received its charter
from Pennsylvania. Owing to transportation difficulties Missouri turned
to the southeast by way of Tennessee and thence to North Carolina.
So we today trace our Masonry back to North Carolina.

Washington, 1948 {Raymond V. Denslow, P.G.M., Missouri}:
I was very much interested in the pageant that was presented last
night, and in the character of Meriwether Lewis. Coming back from
the Lewis and Clark Expedition, he proceeded to get a Charter from

552

553

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, and set up the flrst lodge in St. Louis.
And I think one thing that should have been brought out was the fact
that he carried with him what I think was the most remarkable letter
t.h at I ever read, a letter from President Jefferson pledging to him any
amount of money that was necessary. President Jefferson giving to this
man who was the first Mason to come to this territory.
Masons have always been pioneers. We have always been in the
foreground in the advancement of civilization. It was a Mason who
opened up the great Northwest. It was a Mason who flew the Atlantic
for the first time in the history of the world: It was a member of our
fraternity who brought about the Louisiana Purchase. All of the
governors in the State of Missouri since 1870, with one exception,
were Masons.
There are no more lands to discover. We have gone from the
North Pole to the South Pole. But there are other frontiers that we
yet must discover. And I ask you in the years to come-you in your
jurisdiction and we in our jurisdiction-to unite in doing everything
possible to promote the great aims of our institution.

Master, yes. He was the flrst president of these United States.
All have done much to carry out the ideals for which yonder obelisk
stands. Towering to the Heavens in all majesty and glory, through
ages past and ages to come-as a beacon to all the world of our liberty
and independence. It stands strong, sturdy and erect-as men and
Masons should.

District of Columbia, 1948 (Grand Lodge Report) :
Washington Monument Centennial Celebration
Just 100 years ago, Benjamin B. French, the Grand Master of
Masons in the District of Columbia, stood on yonder hill, surrounded
by his Grand Lodge, and in the midst of many other patriotic groups
laid, in full Masonic ritual form, the cornerstone of that Monument.
At that time he used this gavel-The Washington Gavel. This
gavel, I now hold before you, was used by General George Washington himself, when as the Acting Grand Master of Masons he laid the
cornerstone of the United States Capitol.
This gavel is brought here today by and through the courtesy of
Potomac Lodge No. 5, FAAM. The Gavel had been placed in the
keeping of Potomac Lodge by General Washing ton. It has been
guarded by that Lodge ever since.
The other working tools used by Most Worshipful Brother French,
and his aides, were handed to Roberts Mills (A Freemason) with
instructions to look well to the erection of this national monument.
The Washington Gavel again appeared in the hands of Past Grand
Master Myron M. Parker when, on February 21, 1885, he applied the
Square, the Level and the Plumb to the completed monument and
found it to be well laid, true, and trustworthy.
So we see that this historic edifice is surrounded with deep masonic
significance.
George Washington was a Mason, who loved to meet his brethren
on the level and part with them upo~ the square. An Acting Grand

North Dakota, 1947 {Grand Historian):
Lodge Histories
I join in the recommendation of the Grand Master that a Lodge
Historian be appointed for the research on and writing of a history or a
continuation of the history of each lodge. I think these lodge histories
are very important. That is the only way of preserving the splendid
work of the pioneers who founded our lodges and of those who have
continued their splendid work down to date. That will also serve as an
inspiration and incentive to our younger members.

Iowa, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Charter Anniversaries
The celebration of the issuance of their Charter continues to have
a strong appeal to a large number of lodges.
The original suggestion that a Charter anniversary be held at
appropriate periods (ordinarily for lodges 50 or more years old) was
made by this Committee fully ten years ago; and each year the attention of lodges whose Charters were issued from 50 to 100 years before,
(selecting them at five year intervals) is called to the desirability of
recognizing the fact.
For those lodges less than 50 years old, we remind them of the
interest and value of Founders Night, furnishing an outline for this
type of meeting. In their case, it is easily possible that some, at least,
of their Charter members still survive, and can be fittingly honored.

North Carolina, 1947 (Grand Historian):
From Out of the Past
Your Grand Historian is interested in the number of our lodges
which have obtained pictures of their distinguished dead, and some
of them have attempted systematically to obtain portraits of all Past
Masters. It is a very commendable custom. We suggest that as each
Worshipful Master goes out of office, the minutes of the lodge should
give a sketch of such an officer, to be kept among the records for the
use of generations unborn. Only a couple of years ago this writer
found a missing book of the minutes of Johnston-Caswell Lodge for

554

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

555

CONTINUED SERVICE TO OUR WAR VETERANS

the years 1866-1867 in an attic, buried in a bushel of old Brother Johnson's shoe pegs. That bushel of shoe pegs still remains unmolested.
A non-Mason found the old records of Blandford Bute Lodge. He
_spent the better part of the night reading them, and the next day
(This was about 1912) he called this writer and told him about them.
He made a proposition on this wise. He took the oldest of the books
and pointed carefully to one page. "Read that," he said. That which
was at his finger's end was the following: "Resolved, that Jethro
Sumner be instructed to buy a pair of striped drawers for the use of the
Lodge for two shillings." And earnestly he said, "If you will tell me
what they bought those drawers for, I will give you all of these books!"
We told him, just as vividly as if we had been on the spot when they
were purchased, and we got the books.

Indiana, 1948 (War Service and Relief Committee) :
Your committee wishes to call attention to the original pledge made
and concurred in by three preceding Grand Masters and unanimously
approved by the Grand Lodge when assembled, that this fund remain
intact and be used for no other purpose than that for which it was
intended, that being for direct use of our disabled veterans their
widows and orphans, when applied for by any Lodge in this' Jurisdiction for such assistance.
Your committee wishes again to make this recommendation for
the consideration of this Grand Lodge that the incoming Grand Master
appoint a committee of no less than three members to administer this
fund during the next Grand Lodge year.

New York, 1948 (Grand Lodge) :
A Hero Comes Home
Grand Master's dinner and presentation of Grand Lodge Medal
for distinguished achievement to
General Jonathan M. Wainwright, U.S.A.,
Member of Union Lodge, No. 7, of the Grand Lodge of Kansas.
Hotel Astor, New York City, May 4, 1948.
M.;.W:.Gay H. Brown, Grand Master: General Wainwright, the
American people have thrilled at your courage. Although they did not
suffer physically with you, they suffered mentally. The American people
are proud of you, General Wainwright: but I want to say this: The
Masons in the State of New York are so proud that you are a member,
and have been, of this Fraternity: and so, as the Grand Master of
Masons in the State of New York, it is my pleasure and my honor to
present to you a medal-a Medal for Distinguished Achievement: and
I now give it to you, General Wainwright, with the love, and the best
wishes, and the admiration of the 282,000 Masons in the State of New
York. (Applause).
(Vocal selection-"Stout Hearted Men"-by the St. Cecille Quartette.)

Massachusetts, 1947 (Director Masonic Service):
Geographical Service
For the period September 1, 1946 to August 31, 194 7-for the
entire jurisdiction within the State of Massachusetts, including Masonic
Military Service Activities:
A. The number of service cases handled on behalf of our own
members now residing or assigned outside of the state totalled 2,604.
35 States and 8 foreign countries.
B. The number of service cases handled on behalf of other Grand
Jurisdictions for their members residing or assigned in this state
totalled 1,843. 37 states and 11 foreign countries.

Rhode Island, 1948 (Grand Master) :
The "History and Roster of Rhode Island Masonry in World
War Two" has been compiled and printed in book form. Copies have
been delivered to the secretary of each lodge to be distributed as follows: One copy to each member who served in the Armed Forces of
the United States of America during the period of the war, December 8, 1941 to September 2, 1945: and one copy to each family of a
member, or son of a member, who made the supreme sacrifice in the
service.
Three thousand of the History and Rosters were printed at a cost
of $3,700.00, twenty-five hundred of which were bound in blue cloth
covers for distribution, and the remaining five hundred were left unbound.
-

Masonry in Colorado
The Grand Lodge of Colorado was organized August 2, 1861, by
three lodges, Golden City Lodge No. 34, located at Golden, Summit
Lodge No. 7, at Parkville, and Rocky Mountain Lodge No. 8, at
Gold Hill. Of these, only one lodge, Golden City Lodge No. 1, is still
at work. The other two, having been located in new mining camps,
ceased working when the gold deposits were depleted and the camps
abandoned

1

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Wisconsin, 1948 {Committee on Veterans' Memorial) :
Your committee reports that it has carried out the recommendation of the committee adopted by the Grand Lodge at the last annual
communication. This memorial is ready and presented to the Grand
Lodge at this annual communication. The memorial would be completed by the inserting of the names in the receptacle prepared for
this purpose as soon as this can be drafted in proper form.
The inscription on the master plate reads as follows:
Dedicated by the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin F. & A. M. In Loving
Memory of the Wisconsn Masons Who Made the Supreme Sacrifice
and Honoring Those Who Served in World War II 1941-1945.
Your committee is very happy on behalf of the Grand Lodge
F. & A. M. of Wisconsin to make this presentation in memory of the
Master Masons who fought for us and died for us in the service of
our country in World War II.

Georgia, 1947 (Grand Lodge):
Memorial Plaque Unveiled
A beautiful bronze memorial plaque bearing the names with their
respective Lodges of those of our Brethren who made the supreme
sacrifice in World War II, was unveiled by Past Grand Master Abit
Nix. M. W. Brother Nix spoke with emotion and paid a wonderful
tribute to these our Brethren, and the thousands of others who gave
their all in defense of our beloved country and the way of life that
we hold so dear. At the close of Brother Nix's remarks the Grand
Lodge stood in silent prayer in honor of their memory.
"IN MEMORY OF GEORGIA FREEMASONS WHO DIED
IN WORLD WAR II, THESE SONS OF LIGHT FEARED NOT
TO DIE NOR DIED IN VAIN IF STRIFE SHOULD YIELD TO
BROTHERHOOD AND PEACE ENDURE.''
This is followed by the names of 103 brethren in 74 Lodges with
the designation E. A. or F. C., being shown where the brother had
attained only such degree, and the name and number of each Lodge
is set forth. A record thereof is hereto attached.
·

Colorado, 1948 {Soldiers' and Sailors' Welfare Committee) :
Our committee is charged with the duty of extending relief and
comfort to Masons who were in the military or naval service of the
United States in any war, and to their families. To better carry out

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

557

this duty committee members have been appointed so that one resides
near Fitzsimons General Hospital, one near the Veterans Administration hospital now under construction at Grand Junction, and the
third member at Ft. Lyon.
There have been no ·calls for relief or financial assistance during
the year. The work of the committee, therefore has consisted of visiting
Masons and relatives of Masons in hospitals and elsewhere, extending
words of cheer, and offering to perform any of those small services
which tend to make the days more pleasant, and which the brother is
unable to attend to personally.
Many of the cases coming to the attention of our committee are
those of Masons from other grand jurisdictions. In such cases the
brother's lodge is sent a report of the visit, together with an offer of
service in case the lodge should wish the brother to have some special
attention. These visits and reports are always appreciated.

558

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

NECROLOGY
"Sunset and evening star,
And one clear call for me!
And may there be no moaning of the bar,
When I put out to sea.
"Twilight and evening bell.
And after that the dark!
And may there be no sadness of farewell,
When I embark:
"For tho' from out our bourne of Time and Place
The flood may bear me far,
I hope to see my Pilot face to face
When I have crost the bar."
-Tennyson
JOHN JOSEPH PERSHING
John Joseph Pershing, Honorary Member, died.July 15, 1948, in his
87th year. He was elected Honorary Member of the Grand Lodge of
Missouri, September 30, 1941. In all the history of the Grand Lodge of
Missouri, there have been but six Honorary Members, Brother Pershing
being the last.
He was born September 13, 1860, near Laclede, Missouri. After
getting the foundation of an education in the common schools, which
was followed by several years spent in teaching, he entered the U. S.
Military Academy at West Point, from which he was graduated in
1886,, as a second lieutenant of cavalry.
After years spent in Indian fighting in the West, and in the SpanishAmerican War, he was sent to the Philippines to quell the insurrection
there. He was then a captain-two promoti,0ns were open-to major or
to brigadier-general, and he received the latter.
He led the punitive expedition into Mexico in 1915-16. following
Pancho Villa's raid in Texas, and on the outbreak of World War I,
was chosen by President Wilson to lead the American Expeditionary
Force, and he sailed for France, May 28, 1917.
Following the close of the war, by special Act of Congress, he wu
made General of the Armies-a title held by only one other-George
Washing ton.
He was made a Freemason in December, 1888, in Lincoln Lodge
No. 19, Lincoln, Nebraska. while stationed at Lincoln as Commandant
of Cadets at Nebraska University. In the Scottish Rite, he was coro-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

559

neted 33• Inspector General Honorary, January 6, 1930. On May 2,
1936, he returned to Laclede, his old home town, and participated in
laying the cornerstone of the public school building.
Following a severe illness in 1938, from which it was feared at the
time he would not recover, he made his home in the Walter Reed Hospital at Washington. After elaborate ceremonies, scarcely equaled in
this country, on July 19, he was laid to rest in Arlington Cemetery, in
a spot which he had selected among the dead of World War I. "A
great soldier and patriot has passed from the American scene." Eisenhower.
-Committee on Necrology: Missouri. 1948.

560

561

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FREEMASONRY VS. COMMUNISM

world affairs and trends. When American security and Masonic ideals
are challenged or jeapordized, we must defend them with every ounce
of strength and ingenuity we have at our command. We must keep
America American, and Masonry Masonic. To this end, I pledge my all.

"The Crisis"
These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the
sunshine patriot, will in this crisis s.hrink from the service of their coun~
try: but he that stands it NOW deserves the thanks of man and woman.
Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered: yet we have this consolation
with us;that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What
we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly: it is dearness only that gives
everything its value. Heaven knows how to put a proper price upon its
goods: and it would be strange indeed, if so celestial an article as
FREEDOM should not be highly rated.
Thomas Paine, December 23, 1776.

V errnont, 1948 (Grand Lodge} :
"That the Masons of Vermont. in Grand Lodge assembled, hereby
reaffirm their belief in, and fidelity to. the American form of government
of the people, by the people and for the people. and declare their united
opposition to any and all political doctrines and activities, which are
subversive thereof. by whatever name they may be called."

Ohio, 1948 (Grand Master}:
Communism as we see it in action today has no honor. It glorifies
itself in its 1 ability to break its word, whether verbal or written. It
glorifies expediency. It cares not for principle. It places forward the
mailed fist and dares those who disagree with it to approach.
We must go forward against the power and the forces of Com~
munism. not only to protect and save our Masonry; but also for the
larger issues which are at stake. We must go forward if we are to
preserve our religion, our churches, our schools. our democratic and
representatiTe forms of government and our American way of life.
Masonry always has been a society of leaders. Leadership is
needed now as it never has been before. Let us, therefore, my Brethren,
march on.

Maine, 1949 (Grand Master} :
We are living in a time of change and stress; when groups, factions,
minorities, blocs and nations strive to gain advantage to themselves by
a constant flow of propaganda. charge and counter charge. against their
opponents. These conditions have resulted in world wide confusion,
nervous tension and distrust.
In these surroundings Masonry has thus far stood unfalteringly by
the traditions upon which it was founded. These traditions distinguish
us from the uninitiated. We must not deviate in the least from our old
customs, usages and teachings. To do so is to invite into our Order the
same state of confusion and uncertainty which exists around us.
If Masonry is to retain its present honored position in the world we
must stand united against aggression in every form, and against any
movement which ignores or deprecates the dignity of Man. This is not
all. We must constantly strive for the betterment of mankind through
knowledge and understanding. We must constantly practice the great
teachings of Masonry to the end that an honorable and lasting peace
may be achieved among all the peoples of the earth.

N ~rth Carolina, 1949 (Grand Master) :
These are thrilling times through which we are passing. but they
are fraught with danger. The whirlwind of hate, greed, infidelity and
lust for power seems to be trying to uproot the very foundation of civil
society. If successful, we know that such an order cannot endure. How~
ever, let's take no chance with such experiments. Our system has been
given us by our Creator Himself. and therefore we know that we are
right. As free American citizens and as members of the world's greatest
fraternal order, we must of necessity keep our fingers on the pulse of

•

l

New York, 1948 (Grand Master}:
We of the Masonic Fraternity are prone to eulogize the early Ma~
sonic forebears of this country and boast of what they accomplished in
setting up this great republic. They were brave men; they were outspoken
men: they were instrumental in giving us the Declaration of Independ~
ence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. Are we to be less brave and
courageous today? Are Masons today not called upon to stand up and
be counted? We do not discuss in our Lodge room partisan politics,
but that does not mean we are not vitally concerned in maintaining
Democracy. I believe that Masons today are animated no less than in
former years by the love for Liberty and Freedom. Masonry is a peace~
ful organization, but supporters of regimentation. whether in govern~
ment or church, are deluding themselves if they believe the Masons of
the United States are not willing and eager to stand up and support
Liberty-civil. religious and intellectual-for which our forefathers
fought and won.

562

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Arizona, 1948 (Grand Master) :
It is not necessary that I remind you that we must be up and doing
in order to protect our every purpose and our every privilege for our
existence--our freedom--our democracy.
With the problems of the world today confronting us and of such
importance to humanity, we cannot afford as men, as citizens, yes as
Masons if you please, to sit idle and take no active part in supressing
these MONSTERS.
Let us resolve NOW to study more closely and analyze the seriousness of the problems and conditions confronting us-not wait until
it is brought closer to home before we take action.

and the right to worship God as we choose. Those are precious things
that too many times we accept too matter-of-factly. They would be
denied under any other form of government but the type of free democracy, which is almost synonymous, with Freemasonry.

Mississippi, 1948 (Grand Lodge):
During recent years another ideology-and again emanating from
a foreign country-Communism-has become a threatening menace to
Freemasonry and the things we love. It has its beginnings in despair,
misery, frustration and chaos. Therefore, where these ~o not exist
it undertakes to foster and create them by sabotage, strikes, industrial
and financial strife, violence and treachery. Stalin and the Russian
Politburo are the masters of this system of government, and they rule
with an iron hand, and thus impose their will upon hundreds of millions
of people. They, too. are reaching for America. They are cold, hard,
grim and relentless foes. They believe in a godless, materialistic philosophy which they force upon their subjects by means of fraud and
violence. They would also destroy our Craft and our ideals of liberty,
equality, and fraternity. They are gnawing at the vitals of our government, working day and night like termites to accomplish our downfall. We must be vigilant to guard well our heritage.
Ohio, 1948 (Harry L. Heuther, Grand Master of Masons

in Maryland) :
There has been developed in the world, whether you like it or _not,
a new form of warfare. Today this nation is as much at war with the
communistic government of Russia as though we had planes over the
land and in the sky of Europe shooting. They are determined and
propose by foul means to infiltrate every nation that is contrary to
their ideology. It is the purpose of Communism to destroy exactly
what you Brethren are appreciating and enjoying and carrying out
here today. There is no room in this great nation of ours for Communism and Freemasonry. The greatest document that this world has
had developed was developed by a group of courageous men well
founded upon the principles of Freemasonry, who gave us this land,
who gave us the right to speak things that we expect as our everyday
privilege-free speech, the right to live and work where we choose.

563

South Carolina, 1948 (Grand Master) :
Pointing to the American Flag at his right, he said: "That Flag
is not only the hope of America, but the hope of the world. But someone said, 'What is liberty when a man is hungry.'
"That Flag was born in the midst of suffering and misery. Our
forefathers left bloody footprints on the snows of Valley Forge to
insure that succeeding generations of Americans could be free to do
as they please, to worship as they wish and not be under the yoke of
any tyrant.
"My God! Do you have to have a full stomach to appreciate what
that Flag stands for! My son risked his life in battle in World War II
to help preserve this freedom, and he and I ask nothing in return, for
it is a privilege to serve our country. I just thank God for the privilege
of being an American and having the opportunity to serve this great
country!"
Indiana, 1948 (Grand Master) :
During the year your Grand Master . on numerous occasions endeavored to point out to our Brethren the menace of Communism and
like ideologies toward our American way of life in general and Masonry
in particular.
We must recognize that despotism on one side, and our idea of
freedom on the other are face to face. The Communists say it is
better to be "a slave and have security," while we should go along
with Patrick Henry who said, "Give me liberty or give me death.''
Your Grand Master therefore recommends that we adopt at this
Grand Lodge meeting the following resolution:
Masonry abhors Communism as being repugnant to its conception
of the dignity of the individual personality, destructive of the basic
human rights which are the Divine heritage of all men, and inimical
to the fundamental Masonic tenet of faith in God. (Adopted).
Nevada, 1948 {Grand Master):
I have talked, and talked from my heart, of the great threat of
Communism that is being made to this country and my belief that
Masonry should take a firm and decided stand against it.
There were only thirteen states when our country came into being.
There were probably not more than three hundred Masons in those
thirteen states; yet they helped to create the most ideal government
on the face of the earth-the Constituional Republic we love.

564

565

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Today there are forty#eight states and within them over three
million Masons. If the three hundred intelligent and whole#souled
Masons of that day could create such a government, cannot three
million of us save it?
What about us? What are we to do? Do we believe that no country
can exist as a free government unless its people are also free? A:re
these things real enough to us that we could not only die to preserve
them, but to do what is more important at present, live for them? And
live as if we believe them.
The first thing is the formation of an aroused public opinion, and
perhaps the first step in public opinion is to feel deeply. God grant
that we may be brought to feel deeply about the future of America.
Feeling the need for action in America, talk about it. Talk on
the street, among your families, in your churches, in your Lodges;
in your service clubs, at your barber shop, anywhere, everywhere,
when you can secure a hearing. Talk with the earnestness which
comes from a deep love for a thing you are striving for. Talk intelli#
gently. Learn to talk more and more convincingly as time goes on, and
as you get a greater following. After all, it is easier to speak for your
country than to die for it.
As Masons of old were ready to give all to the formation of a
free nation, so must the Masons of today stand ready to give their
all for the preservation of this nation.

passes. We live by the Golden Rule. If America erred following
World War II it was in attempting to bribe the Soviet Union with
territory in the vain hope that the Great Bear would cooperate for
peace through the United Nations.

Kansas, 1949 (Grand Orator) :
Russia is a totalitarian power. The rulers of Russia cannot tolerate
the teachings of Masonry within her borders. To do so would sow
the seeds of human brotherhood. Amerca, founded on the premise that
"all men are created equal" is regarded by the politburo as the one
nation standing in its way toward total domination of the globe. They
must not be permitted to succeed. The most fantastic lies are pro#
mulgated from behind the iron curtain and repeated here either with
malice aforethought or by those who do not take time to think or who
are unable to think clearly. We are pictured as empire#minded in
spite of our actions in Cuba, in Puerto Rico, in the Philippines: yes
and in Mexico. Who is there to support the thesis that we plundered
those countries when fate gave us the opportunity. Had there been
a shadow of truth in the charge that America has imperialistic designs,
we could have helped ourselves to the juciest prizes ever spread before
a conquering people. There was no one to stop us at the close of the .
recent war. It understates the facts to say that we did not yield to
temptation. We were not even tempted. We do not grab for power.
We remember too well the credo of our founding fathers that "all
men are created equal." We are bound by the lesson of the Com#

Excerpts from the address of M. W. Brother Van Dyke Parker
to Grand Masters' conference, Washington, D. C., in February, 1948.
Freemasonry and Communism
Every Mason, as a citizen, should be informed as to the deadly
threat of Communism to our Fraternity, our country and the institu#
tions which we love and under which we have built this great nation.
. What he learns in his Masonic Lodge he is to take with him into his
daily life, guiding himself by the principles we teach-the simple prin#
ciples of right living and decent manhood.
The discussion of the so-called political parties is not a controversial subject. It is partisan politics that is forbidden. A man may be
a Mason and a member of any political party of his choosing; a man
may be a Mason and worship his God in any church he desires. be he
Hebrew, Roman Catholic, or Protestant: but no ~an may be a Mason
and a Communist, for a Communist is an avowed atheist, a follower
of the teachings of Dr. Karl Marx, who expressed himself that "reli#
gion was the opiate of the masses." You cannot be a Communist and
a Mason any more than you can be a George Washing ton and a Benedict Arnold.
Communism is not only incompatible with the tenets of Masonry,
but the Masonic Lodge system, along with the church, must cease to
exist where Communism governs. Russia today tolerates a restricted
church only as a temporary expedient, and is looking to the ultimate
extermination of all forms of worship of Deity. Masons cannot dismiss
the subject for it is not controversial in the Masonic sense. The first
law of nature is that of self preservation, and the first duty of Masonry
is to defend Masonry. To do' that Masons must be able to recognize
the danger of Communism, both in its outward and in its con#
cealed form.
Communism will never prosper in America if its purpose and its .
methods are known and understood. Ignorance of the subject has
has produced a corresponding apathy toward any need for combating
communistic activity.
A Citizen of the Soviet Socialist Republic may not own land, may
not strike, may not picket, may not travel, may not own jewelry, may
not be tried by jury, may not choose his job, may not absent himself
from work, may not ring a church bell, may not be a fried of a foreigner,
is forbidden freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of
religion, freedom of soul.

566

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Contrast this with our beloved country where the dignity of the
individual is safeguarded and preserved. His home is his castle and
may not be invaded without due process of law. His personal effects
are protecte from unwarranted search and seizure. He may not be
arrested unless he is engaged in the actual commissio~ of crime, or is
presented with the charge for which he stands accused, and in either
case, he must be arraigned in open court, be represented by counsel of
his own choosing, and admitted to bail. He must be given ample time
in which to prepare his defense and must be tried by a jury of his peers.
If dissatisfied with the outcome, he has the right of appeal.
Furthermore, free and unmolested he may worship at an altar of
his own selection, his devotions uninterrupted and his faith a matter
solely for his conscience and his God. If he disagrees with his government, and he frequently does, he has the right to express his opinion
freely and openly, and if he so wills and can afford it, he may hire
a hall and invite others to hear him.
As Masons, our course is clear. Our first duty is to God and our
next duty to our fellow men. Our duty to God rises in a perpendicular,
while we meet our brethren upon the level and these two form the
square. Communism and Masonry are at opposite poles and cannot
live side by side.

Maryland, 1949 (Grand Lodge):

.

The Grand Lodge adopted a formal denunciation of communism as a
part of its Declaration of Principles, and also adopted the following
Masonic Creed, to be recited as part of the opening ceremony ·of all
lodges: "I, as a Master Mason, belietJe in the Fatherhood of God and
the Brotherhood of Man. I wil~ do unto others as I would have them
do unto me. I pledge my loyalty to the Government of the people, by
the people and for the people. and will not countenance disloyalty on
the part of others. Freemasonry is founded upon these principles and
I will use my utmost effort to preserve them for posterity. So mote
it be." It also inaugurated a publicity program to acquaint the membership with the menace of communism.

Louisiana, 1949 (Committee Report):
The Chairman of the Committee reported on that section covered
in his report on Communism, and on his motion that the Declaration
of Principle contained in the report be ADOPTED. The motion was
amended to contain a clause That Communism be banned from
Masonry. and that anyone found to be a member of the Communist
party would be ineligible for the Degrees of Masonry. and further if
any member of the Fraternity be found to be a member of the Communist party that charges be filed against him.
The Motion as Amended was Adopted.

567

Wisconsin, 1948 (Grand Lodge):
REPORT OF INTERIM COMMITTEE TO STUDY
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
Among Masons a belief in God is not a controversial subject. Communism not only seeks to destroy a belief in God. or any form of public
worship, but to destroy those freedoms whic hwould permit the existence
of a Masonic lodge system. The defense of our very existence can
hardly be regarded as a controversial subject.
Masonry abhors Communism as being repugnant to its conception
of the dignity of the individual personality, destructive of the basic
rights which are the divine heritage of all men and inimical to the
fundamental Masonic tenet of faith in God.

Information has been received that the Grand Lodge of Yugoslavia
has been assembled at Rome, Italy and is now announced as the Yugoslavia Masonic Federation in exile. This is necessitated by the fact
that Masonry cannot function behind the Iron Curtain.
-Correspondence Report, 1948.

Prince Edward Island, 1948 (Correspondence Report) :
We in America have little knowledge of the hardships and endurance of our Brother Masons across the seas. We quote an extract
from the National Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia entitled "A Grand
Lodge Home Again After the War."
"The difficulties o £those days when Hitler crowned the Munich
swindle by invading Czechoslovakia in March, 1939, depressed
even brave and -strong personalities and increased the feeling
of helplessness from day to day. But all the more beautiful
did fidelity excel among those members of the Order who
bravely accepted imprisonment, the torture of concentration
camps and finally death, and who devoted their lives to the
struggle for liberation. Of the total number of the pre-war
members of the Grand Lodge 34 percent were imprisoned in
Nazi prisons and concentration camps and over 17 percent were
tortured to death."

Again we are caused to wonder what has happened to that National
Grand Lodge since the "friendly annexation" of such Balkan countries
by Stalin/

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

New Mexico, 1949 (Grand Master):
I Am An American

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

569

FOREIGN FREEMASONRY

I BELIEVE in an All-wise and All-loving God, that the highest
fulfillment, greatest happiness and widest usefulness of the individual
are to be found by living in harmony with His Will.

York Grand Lodge of Mexico

I BELIEVE in government by law under our Constitution: that
free men should be the sovereign power in this land and all laws should
be designed to serve the common good.

I BELIEVE that truth and justice are fundamental to an enduring
social order: that the Golden Rule is the true cornerstone of a permanent
domestic or international peace.

M.'.W.'.Brother Cyril J. Barber, Past Grand Master of the York
Grand Lodge of Mexico:
"The York Grand Lodge of Mexico is one of the smallest, if not
the smallest. English speaking Grand Lodges in the World. It is the
smallest in the number of Lodges chartered as well as in the number
of members. One of your Lodges may have more members than there
are in our Jurisdiction.
"It is fortunate in having recognition by all but one of the English
speaking Grand Lodges in the World. I believe that there is a tendency
univers&lly to recognize more Grand Lodges.
"Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico charters only those Lodges in
Mexico who restrict their membership to English speaking Masons,
most of whom are nationals of American descent. Some few are English
descent, like myself.
" There are, however, a number of nationalities represented and if
you would attend a meeting there you would meet perhaps half a dozen
different nationalities. It is good for those of us who can, to travel and
visit other jurisdictions. It is wonderful that Masonry is not a "watertight" organization. On behalf of our York Grand Lodge I extend to
you all sincere and fraternal greetings."

I BELIEVE that as an American my every-day actions should
accord with these principles, and that my example should promote their
adoption in public and international affairs.

All forty-nine of the Grand Jurisdictions of the United States have
now recognized the York Grand Lodge of Mexico.

I BELIEVE every individual has the right to life. liberty and the
pursuit of happiness: to equality before the law, and to complete
freedom of opportunity.
I BELIEVE in the dignity of labor. whether with head or hand:
that government should constantly maintain free play for the initiative,
ambition and perseverance of the individual in plannig his life work.
I BELIEVE that thrift is a basic virtue in any well-ordered living
and that economy is a prime requisite of any sound financial structure,
whether in government, business or personal affairs.
I BELIEVE that every right implies a duty: every power an obliga.
tion: every possession a responsibility.
I BELIEVE in the sacredness of a promise. that a man's word
should be as good as his bond: that character is an essential value.

Utah, 1948 (Grand Lodge):

-A. T. Gilbert, Chicago.
The Grand Lodge does not claim jurisdiction over all the Republic
of Mexico, nor even over all English speaking lodges. Members while
visiting can not speak for the Grand Lodge nor for the Grand Master.
Visitations to lodges are made under grave difficulties because of
the great distance between lodges and the fact that about half of the
members do not live in the jurisdictions where they belong.
The Grand Master ruled that honorary memberships can not be
granted by the Grand Lodge or local lodge. nor accepted by member~
of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico.

570

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DOMINION OF CANADA

WHAT ARE THE RESPONSIBILITIES AND PLACE OF
THE PAST MASTERS IN THE ACTIVITIES OF A LODGE

E~cerpts from Addresses Delivered at the

SEVENTH ANNUAL INTER-PROVINCIAL CONFERENCE
of the Officers of the Western Grand Lodges, A. F. & A. M.
Banff, Alberta, September, 1947.
THE DIGNITY OF CONFERING OUR DEGREES

M:.W:.Bro. Hector Mackay, Grand Master of Saskatchewan
"I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending" saith the
Lord, "In the beginning, God.'' In the ending, the resurrection to be
with God. The interim period-"life on earth".
Life in Masonic parlance comprises the Initiation, Passing and
Raising of the Candidate.
If all Masons could and would be brought to understand that brief,
concise comprehensive and all inclusive idea of what Masonry is there
would be no problem of "The Dignity of Conferring our Degrees".
The land marks of the Craft include the fundamental thought of the
belief in God. In fact, many writers maintain that belief in God is the
sole dogma and the fundamental land mark of Free Masonry.
The Officers themselves must come well trained, rehearsed, thoroughly prepared and ready and able to do their parts. They should
carry themselves erect with honest pride in what they are doing. Their
voices should be firm and the words distinct so that all may hear. The
knowledge to be imparted is not a secret to be whispered to the candidates. The members may have heard the work a thousand times. It is
still the drama of life and they are all deeply interested. They still want
to hear it, and it is their right and prerogative to have it distinctly
spoken so that all may hear.
Next in importance is the matter of prompting. No prompting
should be necessary, but when such is required it should be by some
one appointed by the Master. Let no one else interfere. Nothing can be
more disturbing nor lacking in dignity than for several to be trying
to help some hesitant, stumbling person stuttering and muttering
incoherently.
Combined with these would be the matter of deportment of all. As
stated before, the Officers should carry themselves erect and speak
distinctly. Those who remain sitting should sit up with proper
attention. There should be no slouchiness but a full, calm attentive
expectancy.
The whole will then blend into that which we have spoken of as
the dignified atmosphere. With this sort of atmosphere there can be
no room for buffoonry or horse play, no whispering among the Past
Masters in the East or from anyone else anywhere in the Lodge.

571

Rt. W. Bros. Wm. A. Henry, Deputy Grand Master of Alberta
It is in the province of the Past Master to recommend a definite line
of reading and study for members of a lodge if they appear interested
or if they can be diplomatically led to an interest in Education and
Research. It is his responsibility that he do this in response to a request
from those members rather than he be guilty of trying to force something on them. If his is a true knowledge his brethren will call upon him.
One of the most important duties of a Past Master, is to help
develop within the Lodge a proper atmosphere for the various occasions. This cannot be done by sitting in the anteroom smoking, and
then skipping into Lodge when the degree work starts. It is not a good
example to talk while the work is being put on, but this is too often
done by a couple of Past Masters. This only detracts from the solemn
occasion. It is his responsibility to see that he does nothing which is
not proper within the lodge.
It is his duty to assist the Worshipful Master, on request.
It is the Past Master's responsibility to see that everything he does
is done corerctly according to the best Masonic Procedure. He should
beware of doing anything that is different from the usual manner, just
because he did so when he was Master. Much better he do it the
correct way, because he knows the Masonic authority for thus acting,
and in this way improving the work and also increasing peace and
harmony in his Lodge.
The Past Master should readily see it is his duty to fraternize with
the new members. In this manner he could do much to encourage them
in Freemasonry. They may not at first regard him with the respect
his rank should warrant, because they do not know him, but if he
conducts himself right, his place in their affections will be secure and
much good will come to all.
· In those lodges where peace and harmony prevail. it is because of
the efficient leading of the rulers of the craft, not only present.but past.
A responsibility of the Past Master is attendance at Lodge meetings,
not just from a sense of duty, but because of the love he has for the
craft, the good he derives from the work, and the hope he can be of
assistance to the present officers and members. Too often the Past
Master drifts from his usual habit of attending lodge. This is usually
an admission on his part that all he wanted was to be a master for
twelve months. What vanity--or maybe a genuine disuse of Freemasonry. I am sure if one faithfully serves in the various offices and as
Master, he will not find it within him to drop from regular attendance.

572

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

573

THE REFRESHMENT PERIOD AND ITS VALUE

R. W. Bro. D. McGugan, Sr. Grand Warden of British Columbia

ALBERTA

The term "refreshment" has come to convey a double meaning in
Masonic parlance. Albert G. Mackay 33° in his encyclopaedia of
Freemasonry writes, in part, under "refreshment".

To the searchers after Masonic Truth, no other book or manual
offers greater scope than that of reviewing Grand Lodge Proceedings,
for there he will find the plan of the operations of each Jurisdiction by
means o~ Reports and discussions, the pith of Freemasonry as seen
h} them is unfolded.-Committee on Foreign Affairs. 1948.

"In Masonic language, refreshment is opposed in a peculiar sense
to labour. While a lodge is in activity it must be either at labour or at
refreshment. If a lodge is permanently closed until its next communication, the intervening period is one of abeyance, its activity for masonic
duty having for the time been suspended, although its powers and
privileges as a lodge still exist, and may at any time be resumed. But
where it is only temporarily closed, with the intention of soon again,
resuming labour, the intermediate period is called a time of re~resh­
ment, and the lodge is said not to be closed, but to be called from
labour to refreshment."
A lodge meeting is of necessity serious and solemn-and relaxation
thereafter furnishes a pleasant ending to a perfect evening.
With that sentiment in mind I believe it is wise to provide entertainment of a lighter vein as part of the program of the refreshment
period. This can be done with propriety as the lodge is closed but all
proceedings must be conducted with dignity and decorum and nothing
approaching the vulgar tolerated. "A little nonsense now and then is
relished by the wisest men."

It is beyond the scope of this paper to attempt to state exactly what_
form a refreshment period should take. It is impossible to provide a
standard formula as circumstances will distate each individual case.
With careful planning ahead a suitable and appropriate program could
be furnished for each occasion. Likewise I say nothing as to the nature
of the material refreshments served. These will vary according to
location, season and occasion.
To sum up I would say that the refreshment period forms an important and integral part of our Masonic life. if carefully planned and
properly conducted. It provides the opportunity to make friends, to
become better acquainted with the brethren, to become better educated
in all phases of Freemasonry. It further affords an opportunity to give
the brethren and particularly the younger members some duty to be
performed and to be noticed, whieh in the final analysis does more
than anything to interest a brother. It gives the opportunity to send
the brethren home rejoicing with a moral uplift that will remain with
them for a long time. In short it provides the opportunity to be "happy
ourselves and communicate that happiness to others".

Today, for present conditions, the great difficulty is the apathy
shown by most of us. Apathy of course means indifference and is a
s?rt of device and a device which compels us simply not to pay attention nor do anything hut just to drift. But the people who have evil
causes to promote are not afflicted with apathy. They never cease
promoting whatever it is they have to promote. There is an old story
hut it illustrates this difficulty. Away back before the dawn of history
man lived with the other animals. They greatly deplored the fact that
man never lived more than 40 years. They held a meeting one day to
s~e ':hat they could do. The horse said he would give man l O years of
his hfe and the dog and the monkey said they would each give ten
years of their lives. So the result is now that from 40 to 50 man works
~ike a horse, from 50 to 60 he leads a dog's life, and from 60 to 70 he
JUSt monkeys along.
I am inclined to think a good many of us who should know better
just monkey along at all ages.
-Grand Lodge, 1948; M. W. Bro. W. J. Dunlop,
G.M. of the Grand Lodge of Canada in Ontario.

Non-Attendance
. In my various visitations to the Craft Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction the attendance was something that was very disturbing to me.
Covering the Grand Jurisdiction the average attendance would not be
much over 30%. In other words, some 3,500 Masons are carrying the
load for 14,000. In talking to some of the brethren who do not attend
lodge you will get many and various excuses. Many of them no doubt
are real. in a great many cases, however, the brethren in question have
not see~ the light or do not realize the great privilege it is to belong
to Anc1~nt Fre~ M~sonry, they not having been properly instructed
_upon being received into Masonry. However, in some cases I have had
the remark made to me 'What is the use. I never could get an appointment to ~ J~nior o~ce even, and unless I have something to do I do
not feel hke JUst gomg to lodge and seeing some Degree conferred.

574

575

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

. BRITISH COLUMBIA

unless unable to do so through physical disability, in which case
permission of the Grand Master must first be obtained."

Called upon to address Grand Lodge. the Grand Chaplain Rev.
W. B. Willan, took for his text. "And God said, Let there be Light,
and there was Light." .
"Certainly there is a cry for light today. for perhaps no phrase could
better describe our modern world than to say it is shrouded in darkness
and chaos. Wherever we turn there is doubt and fear, those twin evils
that haunt the footsteps of men . • . . . . . . . . . • So we turn from the
world outside to the Fraternity with its teachings, and particularly to
the three Great Lights which adorn its altar: the Volume of the Sacred
Law, which speaks of man's relationship to God: the Square, which
speaks of our relationship to men: the Compasses, which deal with our
relationship to ourselves... . . Such is the teaching of Masonry."

GRAND LODGE OF CANADA, ONTARIO
Non ..Resident Masters of Lodges
The Worshipful Master and officers of a Masonic Lodge should.
during their term of office, reside within the jurisdiction of their lodge
or close to it if the work of the lodge is to be properly carried on. How..
ever, there are cases where an officer may be obliged to move from
the community during his term of office and through no fault of his.
Having served as an officer and being interested in Masonry he
naturally does not wish to lose his position in the line of officers. There
has been a large number of instances in which the Worshipful Master..
elect has not been a resident of his community, in fact in some cases
he has resided as much as 75 to 100 miles away. In such cases the per.. •
mission of the Grand Master is required to enable him to assume
office. Where such a situation arises the prosperity of the lodge is of
paramount importance and must have first consideration. I have granted
such permissions but have insisted upon an undertaking from the
Master.-elect that he will attend all meetings of his lodge and also that
he will resign office at the end of six months if it is found the lodge
is suffering. If the officer wishes to continue in line under such cir..
cumi.otances he should realize his responsibility to the lodge and to the
Craft and be prepared to make extra sacrifices for the benefit of
the lodge.

?ne _cannot rush through the . Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of
California. In th~ first place, it is- a 560..page volume, and secondly.
thes~ pages contain so much ~ood material that it all deserves leisurely
readm~. Many. of the Committee and Special reports are lengthy but
are so mformabve that the reader is well repaid for his time.
-Correspondence Committee Report: 1948.

QUEBEC
The Grand Master's censure of Communism and his emphatic
warning to ?eware of anyone of that cult obtaining admission to our
Craft we hi~hly commend. Our rapid growth in membership may
be fraught with great danger to the Order, if we heed not the admoni..
tion so ably stated by the Most Worshipful that we "examine care..
fully, through every channel available. the background and character
of every applicant."
-Committee Report, 1948.

Two..Day Session Grand Lodge
After careful. st~dy the Committee brought in a report that the
Annual Communication should cover a period of two days, which they
fe~t could add to the dignity and decorum of Grand Lodge. Your Comm~ttee concurred .i? principle and forwarded the report to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution.-Adopted.
-Grand Lodge, 1948.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND
One outstanding event during my year of office was the observance
on October 19th last. of the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of
the. granting of the charter to St. John's Lodge No. 1, Charlottetown.
This ~as a landmar~ in Masonic history in th_is jurisdiction, for the
founding of St. John s Lodge meant the establishment of Masonry in
Prince Edward Island.

MANITOBA

Rulings

During the year the question arose as to the objection of a candidate,
through religious or 'other scruples, to kneeling during his several obli..
gations in the degrees. The posture of kneeling is an act of solemn
reverence and humility and is a Masonic custom and usage to which all
candidates must conform. I have ruled that:
"Every candidate must kneel while being obligated in each degree

91 Fifty-year Veterans medals were presented. The Grand Lecturer
held 15 Schools of Instruction for lodge officers and at which the average
attendance was 61. Besides he had held two schools for District Deputy
Grand Masters. where policies and plans for the ensuing year were
discussed. A new cipher ritual was expected to be ready by the summer.
-1948, Committee Report.

576

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Newfoundland, 1948

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

577

A successful lodge should have annual dues of sufficient amount to

The English District Grand Lodge in Newfoundland celebrated
the Centenary of its oldest lodge, St. Johns' Lodge, No. 579, E. C.
As part of this observance, an historical record, entitled "Freemasonry
in Newfoundland," was prepared by Wor. Bro. Kenneth C. Skuce,
O .B. E. A copy of this interesting work reached our desk with the
compliments of the District Grand Lodge.
The first Masonic lodge in Newfoundland was establi~hed in 1746,
by authority of R. W. Thomas Oxnard, Provincial Grand Master for
North America. During the next century, other lodges, civil and
military, also existed in the Colony for varying periods of time. The
oldest surviving lodge was instituted under dispensation from R. W.
Alexander Keith, Provincial Grand Master for Nova Scotia, in 1848,
and was chartered by the United Grand Lodge of England in 1850.
Today, the Grand Lodges of England and Scotland each maintain
a District Grand Lodge in Newfoundland. Under the English Constitution, there are fifteen lodges. There are eight Scottish lodges.

NOVA SCOTIA
The Eighty-Third Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Nova Scotia was convened
at Dalhousie University Gymnasium, Halifax, N. S., on Wednesday,
June 9th, A.O. 1948, A.L., 5948.
ft" Excerpts from the Grand Master's address:
We have a splendid organization in Canada. The Boy Scout Association, the Judge of the Juvenile Court informs me that the Boy Scout
has a clean record. Would it not be a splendid effort for each lodge
in this jurisdiction with the support of Grand Lodge to sponsor a troop
of Boy Scouts. Our hope for the future would be assured. "Better to
put a fence around the head of the cliff; than an ambulance down in
the valley." For the "hope of tomorrow is the youth of today." I submit this suggestion for your serious consideration.
One of the exhibits I saw in the Smithsonian Institute which impressed me more than all, was the section of a giant tree, 20 feet or more
in diameter, felled about 1900, smoothed and polished, its annual rings
clearly visible and marked with the years, 1900 beginning at the bark
circle; then 1800, 1700, 1600 down to 0 and then 27 B.C. "What stories
. it could tell; what sermons preach!" Shakespeare says: "And thus our
lives removed from public haunts, find tongues in trees, sermons in
stones, books in running brooks, and good in everything."
Pardon us please/ But we think this must have been a section from
one of our giant redwoods.

adeq~ately pay for the cost of operation, independent of fees from

candidates. One secretary hit the nail squarely on the head· some
lo~ges are operating on dues which are the same as when butt~r was
thirty cents a pound and Grand Lodge is trying to do the same.
The lodge secretary is the king pin, spark plug, and balance wheel
of. the lodge. A good secretary will make a good lodge: a poor secretary
~ill m~ke a poor lodge. There is usually continuity in his office, but
king pins h~~ome w~rn .~nd slack; spark plugs need adjusting; balance
wheels get out of line . I am pleased to note some improvements in
lodge notices, items of interest, past, present and future, Ma~onic
references :a thought for the month:-these will at least delay its journey
to. the waste basket and perhaps improve lodge attendance. One industrious secretary made a note like this:-WORK:-LOBSTER
SUPPER. Someone should show him how.

Phy~i~al qualificat_ions. In the past this Grand Lodge has adhered
rath~r ri~idly to tradition and previous rulings respecting the physical
qualifications of candidates. In some instances, the rulings of one Grand
Master have not always been consistent with those a later Grand
Master. A careful survey of the rulings of all jurisdictions in the United
Stat~s and British Empire shows a definite trend towards relaxing these
requirements so as to admit petitioners, who have suffered injuries, hut
who are morally ~d intelle~tually qualified. The Advisory Board has,
~e~efor~ ~her senous consideration, advised the Grand Master that
in its opinion. he should in a proper case, grant his dispensation to a
lodge. t? receive such a petition, the lodge in each case obtaining and
~ubmit~g to the Grand Master, through the Grand Secretary, full
information respecting the petitioner.-Committee Report, 1948.

P?n~ing Pr~ceedings. The very considerable increase in· the cost
of pnnting dunng the past few years makes it necessary to reduce the
size of ou~ P~oceedings. The majority of Grand Lodges do not print
mem_bership lists and a very substantial number do not print Fraternal
Reviews. We believe there is a general desire on the part of our
members that we should print both. In order to reduce the cost some~hat, fo~ 1948 and 1949, we propose not to print the full membership
lists ~ in 1947, but. only the of/leers, P. M.'s and the additions and
~educ~ions (suspensions, demits and deaths), and that the next full
list will be printed in 1950 and every three years thereafrer.
-Advisory Committee Report, 1948:

(Adopted).

578

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

First Masonic Bi-Centenary in Canada
St. Andrew's Lodge No. 1, of Halifax, celebrated its 200th anniersary, June, 1949.
This Lodge was organized by Lord Cornwallis, who was Commanding Officer of the British troops in that city, and who surrendered
to another Mason, George Washington, at Yorktown. A large attendance of Masons from other Canadian and United States Jurisdictions witnessed this interesting ceremony.
The foreword of the California Correspondence Committee is a
very fine attempt at a review of World Masonry. The Committee h~d
gone to the trouble of gathering statistics of the number of Masons in
the different countries. We take advantage of their work, and say
"Thank You."-Correspondence Committee, 1948.

Another reader of our Report/ Stock going up/
SASKATCHEWAN
Masonic Lodges Compared with Service Clubs
Of one Lodge, a D.D.G.M. remarked that "This Lodge has a number of young members who do not feel that the Lodge is active .enough.
They want it more like a service club. They need to have the difference
between a Lodge and a service club explained by a well-skilled Brother."
Many members of our Craft are members of service clubs. The program
of a service club does undoubtedly make a strong appeal to business
and professional men because of the informal and friendly atmosphere
surrounding it, and the apparent difficulty of obtaining a membership,
restricted as it is to certain classifications. But is there any reason why
a service club should be better able than a Masonic Lodge to provide
friendliness and good feJlowship? We know of none.
We owe an obligation to our Youth to accept responsibility on our
school boards, our municipal, state, provincial and national bodies. If
we do not become members of any of these bodies we owe it to ourselves and to all in our District. lt is a duty to get out to vote. We
should strive to see that the members we elect are upright, honorable
and the best obtainable and that these bodies do not pinch pennies. On
the contrary, see that they make due allowance and ample provision
for supervised, recreational facilities and occupational guidance. There
is much that can be done but it must be done intelligently.

-Gfand Master, 1948.

579

The California Committee on Correspondence presented a topical
review of statements selected from addresses of Grand Masters in
various jurisdictions. The subjects dealt with are Correspondence Reviews, Bulletins, Foreign Masonry, Foreign Relief, Life Memberships
and Negro Masonry. The review is most informative on all the subjects
dealt with.-Correspondence Committee, 1948.

The Figure Three-By W. Bro. ]. E. Campbell

In a lecture entitled "An Exposition of the Third Degree' delivered
by W. Brother C. T. F. Goy and printed in the October 1946 issue of
the Victorian Craftsman the speaker pointed out the prominent place
in the religious and moral history of man occupied by the sacred figure
three.

In the Old Testament it is very prominent. Three elements-earth,
water, air. Three illuminations-sun, moon, stars. Three great Patriarchs-Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. Three divisions of the Book-the Law,
the Prophets, the Sacred Writings.
Three famous names given to the Eternal. What were they?
In the New Testament the figure is frequently used.
Jesus lived three decades and three single years. His ministry
lasted three years. Three persons were involved in the Transfiguration.
He was tried before three men. The three crosses. He remained three
days in the tomb. Three great attributes-Faith, Hope, Charity. The
Trinity-Father, Son, Holy Ghost.
In the realm of Masonry:
The primary degrees, three knocks, three steps, three-fold sign,
three signs, three great lights, three lesser lights, three G.M.'s, three
principal officers, three W.T.'s in each D., three perambulations, three
steps in approach to A, three entrances to the T, three weapons, three
men, three Lodges sent out to search, three methods were tried.

580

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
A REVIEW
The Masonic W arid today is in a state of uncertainty and it is
difficult to forecast the future. Conditions are settled only in the British
Commonwealth of Nations and in the United States. of America. There
are however some Grand Lodges in Europe which api)ear to be emerging from a state of confusion. In Norway there has been recovery and
the Grand Lodge is functioning despite the fact that Masonic Temples
were destroyed: even the Grand Lodge Temple in Oslo was ruined
by the invaders who tore down the decorations and were converting
it into what was planned to be a restaurant. The National Grand
Lodge of Denmark during the last year has become active and relations
with it have been renewed by several Grand Lodges. In Germany it is
reported that lodges in the American Military Zone are being organized
with the consent of the local military authority; it will however be · a
long time before conditions are stable and official recognition will undoubtedly be delayed. In the Russian-controlled zone all Masonic
activity is strictly prohibited. The Grand Orient of Belgium does not
require a declaration of a belief in God from its members and until a
change takes place no recognition can be made by the regular Grand
Lodges of the world. The Grand Lodge of the Netherlands is gradually recovering from disaster notwithstanding the destruction of its
buildings and libraries, the dispersion of its membership and the death
of the Grand Master in Buchenwald Camp. In France whete there
are three Grand Lodges, only one of which is recognized by the Grand
Lodge of England, all appear to be recovering .b ut conditions there
are in such an uncertain condition that it is impossible to say what the
future holds. In Switzerland the Grand Lodge Alpina which functioned during the war, recently held its 94th annual meeting and is
widely recognized. In Austria where Masonry was suppressed, there
is activity. The Grand Lodge has been re-opened and three lodges have
been reformed and are apparently recognized by the Government of
Austria. In Hungary it is reported that the government has recently
repealed a decree in force for 25 years which prohibited Freemasonry:
meanwhile buildings and property were destroyed and the lodges dissolved. In Italy there are two Grand Lodges, each of which has been
recognized by some Grand Lodges in the United States, and at present
they are being investigated by a delegation from the Masonic Service
Association. In Greece there are reports to the effect that Masonry
is being revived but conditions there are in a most unsettled condition.
The Masonic Temple in Athens is at present occupied by homeless
refugees. As to conditions in South America there is difficulty in de-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

581

termining whether or not recognition should be extended. Several
Grand Lodges there are widely recognized but in the case of some,
regularity of origin and adherence to the established standards are
doubtful. - W. M. Martin, Chairman, Correspondence Committee.
Saskatchewan, 1948.

Italy
The Grand Orient of Italy (National Grand Lodge)
Freemasonry in Italy has a glorious history. Dating from 1733, it
is filled with sufferings, battles and martyrs. The story of the devotion, of such great Italian Masons as Garibaldi, Mazzini and Cavour
to the cause of Liberty reads like an epic. Unfortunately, many years
ago a sharp division occurred between the Grand Orient and the Grand
Lodge, but a union was effected in November, 1945, following the
renaissance of Freemasonry which came as a result of the downfall of
the Mussolini regime.
For 20 long years the Masonic Brethren of Italy were subjected to
the most hideous atrocities. The Lodges were plundered and destroyed,
leaders of the Craft were imprisoned, tortured and slaughtered, and
great numbers of the Brethren were driven underground. In effect,
however, Masonry was never dissolved. It continued through its
Bre~hren the fight against Facism-so much so that the more influential
Masons were often arrested and deported. The infinite heroism of
those who were faithful to their trust has added one more glorious
chapter to an already proud history.
The Grand Orient is composed of more than 400 Lodges and has
a membership in excess of 15,000 under the leadership of Dr. Guido
Laj. Grand Master. The Constitution requires a belief in God and the
Holy Bible on the Altar. It is sovereign and independent, follows the
Ancient Landmarks and recognizes all the customs and usages of regular Freemasonry of the Grand Lodges of the United States. It does
not permit religious or political discussions within its constituted Lodges.
-Indiaria, Correspondence Committee, 1948.
. A letter from W. Bro. Cortini, who conducts the foreign correspondence of the Grand Orient, contains some language so important
that we quote it, as follows:
What we are actually looking for. over any material help, is esteem
and the full certitude that our American brethren consider us as the
proper fighters for liberty and democracy, the two ideals for which
we fought since our childhood and especially during the Facist period.
During this long period we accustomed our souls to the sufferings and
our body to the sacrifice, but now that we come back to liberty and
democracy, our only wish is to feel ourselves free men in a free country.
This is our real banner and our only aim.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is quite necessary that the ritual American jurisdictions of North
and South and the Grand Lodges of all the States give, as soon as
possible, a juridicial form to the Italian Masonry. If you esteem that
there is another Italian Masonic family which deserves your confidence,
and has more rights than we, give your recognition to it, but for God's
sake do not waste time! Two years have been lost for this aim, and
in Italy we need to find ourselves again, and be united if we want that
the real Masons collaborate and work, hand in hand, for the aims which
are common to all Masonic families.
-Massachusetts, 1948, Correspondence Committee.

Building, OM GUS headquarters (Office Military Government United
Sta!es). The building is one of a group of buildings, which before and
durmg the war were occupied by the German Luftwaffe (Air Corps).
The headquarters building was occupied by General Goering, Chief
of the Air Corps, it is now the headquarters of General Clay, Theatre
Commander for the United States.
. Its membership now is approximately 100, which indicates a splendid future for a lodge in Berlin.
B~rlin, as most of you know, is the fourth largest city in the world,
four times larger than Boston in area as well as in population, and there
is no doubt in the minds of many of our brethren that there will be a
large headquarters in Berlin for many years to come.
When the Lodge was first opened and the beautiful paraphernalia
presented by the various Lodg1ts in Rhode Island was added, the setting
:was complete and the Lodge room macie a wonderful appearance. Overseas Lodge presented the American Flag, the Bible for the Altar and a
set of officers' aprons.
'
Lt. Harry Beran, U. S. Navy, a California Mason, presented the
Lodge a Rough Ashlar and a Perfect Ashlar, pieces of a bombed monument, also a beautiful pair of Knockers which he had made by a German
artisan. Brother Captain Harry Dubblede, a Maryland Mason, presented a large 1Ox1 i rug for the center of the Lodge room.

582

Spain
Masonry in the European countries has very materially improved
during the past year, with the exception of Spain, where Franco seems
still determined to completely destroy the Order in that country. We
would recommend the continued fraternal relations with the Grand
Lodge of Spain in Exile. This Grand Lodge in Exile carries on from
Mexico City, and these brethren deserve our prayers, assistance and
our recognition. We are hopeful that within the Council of Administration of the League of Nations, in due time, fraternal organizations
and Protestant churches may have the same reverence and treatment
in Spain that the Roman Catholic Church and its votaries receive in
our country.
-Kansas, 1949 (Committee Foreign Relations).
Sweden
We have a report from the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
of Sweden wherein he states that 923 candidates were initiated in the
year 1947, an increase of more than 100 over the preceding year. He
reports the death of Deputy Grand Procurator, Prince Gustaf Adolf,
in whose memory a charity fund of 12,000 crowns was subscribed, to
be called "The Hon. W: M: Prince Gustaf Adolf Fund."
.
The Grand Master, H. M. The King, celebrated the 70th Anniversary of his having been brought to light in Masonry, January 13,
1877.
Another noteworthy occurrence was the initiation of Prince Bertel
by his father, the Crown Prince. It is noted that five brethren from
the United States were present at the initiation of Prince Bertel.
The "Help for Europe" fund finally reached the sum of 128,000
crowns.-Correspondence Committee Report, 1948.
Berlin Lodge
Berlin Lodge operating under a dispensation from the Grand Lodge
of Rhode Island is now an established fact.
The Lodge room is located on the third floor of the Economics

583

-Rhode Island, 1948 (Grand Lodge Report).

584

PROCEEDINGS QP THE

BRITISH ISLES
A Grand Lodge that is older than ours we do not "recognize"; we
ask it to "recognize" us. And one thing must be remembered. The
oldest Grand Lodge in the world has its own ideas about how it will
do things: the United Grand Lodge of England the fountain from
whence sprang all Masonry, the Mother Grand Lodge of our own
earliest lodges. Now it happens that the United Orand Lodge of England has 1402 lodges in the city of London alone; 3686 lodges in the
English counties and cities other than London; and six hundred and
ninety-eight "district lodges," which ar~ lodges in other parts of the
world than England itself.
UNITED GRAND LODGE
of
Ancient. Free and Accepted Masons of England
1949 QUARTERLY COMMUNICATIONS
Holden at Freemasons' Hall, Gt. Queen Street. London. W.C.2
ELECTION OP THE M.W. THE GRAND MASTER, MARCH, 1949
M. W. Grand Master and Brethren, it is my privilege to propose that
M.W. Bro. His Grace the Duke of Devonshire, Knight of the Most
Noble Order of the Garter. be re-elected as Grand Master. (Loud
applause.)
.
ANNUAL INVESTITURE, APRIL, 1949
All the Brethren stood while the Grand Director of Ceremonies
proclaimed M.W. Bro. His Grace the Duke of Devonshire. K.G .• as
Grand Master, by his several styles and titles.

Gift Parcels from Overseas
The Board once again wishes to express, so far as it can in words,
its thanks to those Grand Lodges, Lodges and Brethren overseas who
have continued to send food parcels to Freemasons. their families and
dependents. There can be little doubt that these gifts are arriving in
even greater numbers than previously. and the letters of thanks that
are received by the Grand Secretary are evidence not only of the
gratitude that is felt by the many thousands of recipients in this country
but also of the very widespread generosity of the Brethren overseas.
which will furnish an abiding memory of fraternal good will.
Presentations to Grand Lodge Library and Museum
During and since the late war, owing to shortage of paper, it has
been impossible to print lists of additions made to the Library and
Museum by way of gift, with the names of the donors. Each has been
suitably acknowledged.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

585

Amon~ the many valuable presentations made to th~ library since
1939 mention may be made of two newly discovered copies of the Old
Charges (now known as the King George VI and Devonshire MSS.);
the o'!1Y.. complete. copy kn_own of Dassigny's "Serious and Impartial
Enquiry : and unique copies of an Anti-Masonic pamphlet of 1698,
and others with Masonic reference previously unrecorded.
The Museum has been enriched by numerous presentations in silver,
Sheffield plate, glass and bijouterie, of considerable value and incalculable interest to students of Masonic history.

Attendance at Grand Lodge, 27th April, 1919
Past
Masters Wardens Masters
394
London ··-------------·-----·-·· ------------- 218
212
Provincial ----------·······--·------------· 300
225
374
Overseas ....................................
11
437
518
779

Summary
Masters. Wardens and Past Masters----····-··-······························
Grand Officers (including Present Grand Stewards) ................

Total...·-··············-----······

Total
824
899
11
1.734
1,734
403
2,137

Report of the Board of General Purpose
Visitors to Lodges
The President of the Board of General Purpose: M.W. Grand
Master and Brethren, before I put the Report for your confirmation,
I should like to say that it has been suggested, and I consider the suggestion quite apt, that I should amplify that paragraph of the Board's
Report which refers to "Visitors to Lodges." That paragraph deals
with visitors emanating from unauthoried Jurisdictions. It does not
mention the possibility of unquali.6ed visitors who have been initiated
in our own Jurisdiction or in one recognized by the Grand Lodge of
England. It would 'be well that Masters of Lodges, and indeed that
every Brother, should make themselves familiar with Rules 125 and
127 of the Book of Constitutions. which deal with this point. It is laid
down in Rule 125 that any visitor, if required, shall produce proof of
good standing in his Lodge or Lodges, and it is laid down in Rule 127
that any Brother who has been excluded from a Lodge is not permitted
to attend any Lodge until he again becomes a subscribing member. I
trust that I have said sufficient to impress on each member of the Craft
his responsibility. for our privileges are precious, and should be guarded
jealously.

586

587

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

SCOTLAND

political, the literary, or the commercial annals of its country, has become of great importance in the estimation of the Masonic antiquary
from its intimate· connexion with the history of the institution.
The abbey of Kilwinning is situated in the bailiwick of Cunningh~m, about three miles north of the royal burgh of Irving, near the
Irish sea. The abbey was founded in the year 1140, by Hugh Morville,
Constable of Scotland, and dedicated to St. Winning, being intended
for a company of monks of the Tyronesian order, who had been brought
from ~elso. The edifice must have been constructed at great expense,
and with much magnificence, since it is said to- have occupied several
acres of ground in its whole extent.
Laurie says, that, by authentic documents as well as by other
collateral arguments which amount almost to a demonstration, the
existence of the Kilwinning Lodge has been traced back as far as the
end of the fifteenth century, but we know that the body of architects
who perambulated the continent of Europe, under the name of "Travelling Freemasons," and the account of whom has been given in some
of the former numbers of this work, flourished at a much earlier period:
and we learn, also, from Laurie himself. that several of these Masons
traveled into Scotland, about the ·beginning of the twelfth century.
( History of Freemasonry. p. 89). Hence, we have every reason to
sup~s~ th~t these men were the architects who constructed the abbe}'
at Kilwmnmg, and who first established the institution of Freemasonry
in Scot~and. If such be the fact, we must place the origin of the first
lodge in that kingdom at an earlier date, by three centuries, than that
clai~ed for it by Laurie, which would bring it much nearer, in point
of time, to the great Masonic Assembly, convened in the year 926, by
Prince Edwin, at York, in England.
-North Carolina, 1948 (Foreign Correspondent Report).

Quarterly meetings were held in Edinburgh in February, May,
August and November. The Annual is usually held on or near St.
Andrew's Day, at which time the Grand Lodge officers are installed,
followed by the "Festival of Saint Andrew," which had been omitted
for eight years, owing to the war. It was resumed this year, to the great
joy of the brethren, many of whom came from great distances to be
present. The Most Worshipful Grand Master, having been reelected
and installed, presided at the banquet, which was held in the Grand
Hall at 5 P. M. (Festival tickets cost 1 pound each, exclusive of wines).
The Rt. Hon. the Earl of Galloway was elected for the third successive time to the office of Grand Master Mason of the Grand Lodge,
A. F. & A. M. of Scotland on November 30, 1948. The installation
was made by the Earl of Balfour, Past Grand Master, who also officiated in the installation of the other Grand Officers.
_
The Earl of Galloway reappointed Sir Malcolm Barclay-Harvey
as Deputy Grand Master, and appointed Dr. Douglas L. G. Radford
as Substitute Grand Master.
The approval of the report of the Board of General Purposes
adopted a recommendation of the Board that the Grand Lodge should
revert to the provisions of Rule 173 of the Book of Constitutions, so
that only the second and third degree might thereafter be conferred
as a courtesy to other Grand Jurisdictions. In the future the ceremony
of initiation can only be conferred on members actually elected as
members of the lodges concerned.
The Board, taking note of the influx of candidates, proposed the
formation of more overflow or off-shoot lodges, suggesting the adop..
tion of the motto: "Smaller Lodges, Greater Opportunity."

ORIGIN OF SCOTTISH MASONRY
Kil winning
The origins of Freemasonry are of interest to us. The following
account, written about one hundred years ago, gives a graphic account
of the origins of Scottish Freemasonry at Kilwinning. The dates here
ascribed are around 1140 A. D.. about two hundred years after the
great Masonic Assembly which is said to have been called by order
of Prince Edwin at York, in England.
The story is as follows:
Kilwinning, the Birthplace of Scottish Masonry
As the city of York claims to be the birthplace of Masonry in
England, the obscure little village of Kilwinning is entitled to the same
honor with respect to the origin of the order in the sister kingdom of
Scotland. A place, in itself small and wholly undistinguishable in the

IRELAND
The Grand Lodge of Ireland is organized into 18 Provincial Grand
Lodges. Thirteen of these are at home, the others being designated
as New Zealand, South Africa (Northern), Southern Cape, Rhodesia,
and Natal.
·
At the December, 1948 Communication of Grand Lodge the Deputy
Grand Master, R.'.W.'. Raymond F. Brooke, made the following
remarks:
"We have met tonight in the shadow of the great sorrow that has
come upon us by the death of our Grand Master, the Earl of Donough~o.re. Hs ha~ ruled this Grand Lodge for 36 years, a period which
m itself constitutes an average Masonic lifetime. It is difficult to realize
what Grand Lodge is going to be like without him and one feels that
we have come to the end of an era.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

· Installation of Grand Master
An Especial Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Ireland was held at the Freemasons' Hall, Molesworth Street, Dublin, on Wednesday, the 15th day of December, 1948. to install Right
Worshipful Raymond Frederick Brooke as Most Worshipful Grand
Master in succession to the late Right Hon. The Earl of Donough-.
more, K.P.

Pl-IlLIPPINE ISLANDS

588

Remarks by Grand Master
"The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Ireland is not only
the ruler of the Craft under the Irish Constitution everywhere, but,
by virtue of the ·fact that the Grand Lodge of Ireland yields pride of
place only to the United Grand Lodge of England, he is the holder
of one of the greatest positions in the Masonic world.
Right Worshipful Brother Senior Grand Warden:
"We are confident, Most Worshipful Grand Master, that under
your rule. the honor and prestige of this Grand Lodge.· which is the
second Grand Lodge in all the world, will be maintained and upheld
as it has been for more than 200 years by your illustrious predecessors."
Belfast-1948
Many of our lodges, especially those in Belfast, have had a strenuous year's working as almost another thousand new members have
been added to our roll. Since the beginning of the late World War
the increase has been phenomenal and an easement of the pressure
is now anticipated. Through friendly agreement many city lodges
limit their membership to existing accommodation and this arrangement leads to understanding and closer friendship which is practically
impossible when lodge numbers become too large.
Antrim-1948
I am happy to say that all officers of the various lodges continue
to take great interest in their work, and from what I see from time to
time, impresses me very much, especially as my endeavour is to see
the Degrees worked singly thus making the ceremony much more impressive.
-Committee Reports.

MASONRY IN SOUTH AFRICA
Many interesting Masonic church services were held during the
year. The English. Irish, Scottish and Dutch lodges in South Africa
held a joint service in the Cathedral in Cape Town. R. W. Bro. His
Grace the Archbishop of Dublin preached at the bi~centennial of Lodge
No. 163. The Provincial Grand Lodge of Londonderry celebrated its
centennial by services in the historic Derry Cathedral.

589

The cosmopolitan character of the Grand Lodge is promoted by
a reasonable sharing of office honors. M. W. Bro. P.G.M. Goldenberg
states: "In 1917 a gentleman's agreement was made whereby an Occidental brother should succeed an Oriental brother, and vice versa, to
the Grand Mastership and I am glad to state that this agreement has
been faithfully kept.-Correspondence Report, 1948.
Excerpts from the Address of the Grand Master, 1949
The vitality of masonry withstood the vicissitudes of time. · It had
seen persecutions in Europe and elsewhere all the world over. In recent
time, right within our midst during enemy occupation, we witnessed
members tortured, incarcerated or murdered: yet the light of masonic
principles did not Bicker here or anywhere, whenever tyranny rules
temporarily. Indeed, wherever free men live. masonry will survive. For
men may die; institutions may perish; mighty edifices crumble to the
dusts. but the underlying principles under which free men live and die
shall survive through eternity.
New Dormitory and Bowling Alleys ·
Our Dormitory and Bowling Alleys were inaugurated last February, 1948. Partly out of the earnings of these enterprises, the
mortgage entered into between the Grand Lodge and the Philippine
Bodies A. & A. S. R. is now fully paid. Part of the earnings of the
Dormitory and Bowling Alleys were made available in the construction
of two tennis Courts and a Basketball Court.
Plaridel Masonic Temple
The seat of government of this Grand Lodge and your Masonic
Home in Manila is the Plaridel Masonic Temple.
Provincial Masonic Temples
Our provincial brethren are very determined and enthusiastic in
the rebuilding of their Masonic Homes. There are many in the process
of construction and several Lodges are now devising means with which
to start the erection of their lost ones.
Bulletins are a very important means of keeping the brethren posted
on all Lodge activities and disseminating Masonic knowledge and I
highly commend these Lodges for these publications. and hope that
in the future more of our Lodges will find themselves in a position to
publish similar bulletins.
A resolution was adopted at the Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge 1924. as follows:
'RESOLVED, that hereafter no Masonic Building be constructed without prior approal of Grand Lodge, or the Grand
Master.'

590

591

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Masters' Gallery

In view of these pronouncements and our unequivocal stand, it
behooves us as Masons to arrest the rising tide of Communism as
effectively as we can. We will fight it. We will face it not only by
familarizing ourselves with its theories and dissecting its revolutionary
methods but also-and this is the important thing-by leaving no doubt
in the minds of our people through our througllts and deeds, that
Democracy is more preferable and dependable.

We have been able to re~establish our PAST GRAND MASTERS'
GALLERY, from the first Grand Master to the present Grand Master.
We were keeping a collection of their photographs, and said photo..
graphs have been enlarged and are now exhibited in the FOYER of
our Temple for future generations to admire.

Library and Museum
A Grand Lodge Librarian in charge of the Library and Museum,
it is a pleasure to report that we have enlarged our Library with dona~
tions of books, pamphlets, periodicals and other magazines received
by us.

Grand Orator: The Common Enemy, Communism.
A more dangerous adversary, however, is becoming very aggressive
every day. This foe is Communism. Its poisonous tentacles have
reached far and wide. It can not be checked by an individual nor by
many persons. Men and nations must band themselves securely as a
bulwark against this menace if they expect to continue living under a
regime of justice, liberty, and democracy.
The Qriginal Communist Manifesto, among other things, provides
for "the overthrow of the burgeioisie, the dominion of the ploretariat,
•.. and the introduction of an economic and social order without
private property ... " Note the words used: "overthrow", "dominion'',
and "social order without private property".
Communism wherever found is working according to plan. It
preaches discontent, resorts to revolutions, and fosters domination. Its
influence has been felt here to such an extent that the Congress of the
Philippines as in other countries' congresses and legislatures, has created
the corresponding investigating body called the Special Committees on
Un~Filipino Activities. And because Communism runs counter to our
republican form of government, it is undemocratic; because its doctrines
are the anthithesis of ours, it is un~Filipino.
The Philippine Constitution is a Masonic document embodying
Masonic experiences and ideals. Among those who took a leading part
in its preparation and adoption are Masons themselves. It is not
surprising therefore, that Masonry and Democracy are on the same
side on the question of Communism.
Masonry is the great Peace Society on earth. It stands for orderly
government not anarchy; for the dissemination of truth not propaganda.
Its members are expected to abide by the laws and be loyal to their
country. To accept another ideology is disloyalty to their Republic
and disservice to the Fraternity.

Report of the Grand Secretary
As in previous years, we have pursued intimate fraternal relations
with the Grand Jurisdiction of the United States of America.
Financial Condition of the Grand Lodge

It is gratifying to state here that the financial condition of the M. W.
Grand Lodge is sound. As of December 31, 1948, we have on deposit in
the Bank the total sum of P72,094.94 in Checking and Saving Accounts
and cash in the hands of the Grand Secretary amounting to P992.50.
The total value of our Fixed Assets amounts to P297,674.70. So, the
total value of all our properties is now P391,363.79. AU our indebted~
ness has ·been paid, including the mortgage obligation. So we have
no pending obligations.

T wenty~Five Year Buttons
"Your Committee considers the Certificate authorizing the
recipient to wear this Button to be the real award of honor,
and the Button to be only the evidence of such award.
The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of China
Masonic Temple: 178 Tihwa Road South
Shanghai. China
1:his wiU report that our Grand Lodge was happily consecrated in
traditional ample form on March 18, 1949, at Shanghai, China, by the
Grand Master, assisted by four Past Grand Masters and elected
officers, of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines, followed by the in~
stallation of the officers listed below. There were present on this
occasion at Masonic Temple all District Grand Officers of Sister Con..
stitutions operating Lodges in China, totaJling some 500 Masons rep..
resenting a dozen Jurisdictions, with several hundred others turned away
for lack of accommodation.
After the Consecretation and Installation ceremonies messages of
fraternal greetings and cordial congratulations wishing success to the
Grand Lodge of China were read from:
The Duke of Devonshire, Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge
of England; M. W. Roger Keith, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge

593

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

of Massachusetts: and M. W. Edward H. Siems, Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of California: together with scores of cablegrams from
brethren in various parts of the world. The Grand Masters of Scotland
and Ireland have also expressed their good will and requested that
applications for recognition be sent to them. On the evening of March
18th, 450 Masons, guests and hosts gathered at the French Club for
a grand banquet to toast the new Grand Lodge and Grand Master.
-Grand Lodge Bulletin.

Queensland, covering 15,800 members and which numbers included
54 Lodges with 2,890 members in the northern portion of the State.
The first Masonic Lodge formed in Queensland was the North
Australian, on 13th July, 1859, now within 12 years of its centenary.

592

Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of China
Masonic history was written at the Masonic Convention held on
January 15th and 16th, 1949, at the Masonic Temple in Shanghai,
China, when the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of China
was solemnly and unanimously organized. The convention was composed of four delegates from each of the six Lodges operating in China
under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines, delegates
from the three Massachusetts Lodges working in Shanghai, and observers from the sister constitutions with daughter Lodges in China:
to wit-United Grand Lodge of England, the Grand Lodge of Scotland,
the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, and the Grand Lodge of Ireland.
A most cordial atmosphere of fraternal harmony and good will prevaded the convention of about one hundred Masons.
The following officers were elected to serve for the ensuing Masonic
year: Brother David W. K. Au, Grand Master: Brother Luther M.
Jee, Deputy Grand Master: Brother T. F. Wei, Senior Grand Warden:
Rt. Rev. Brother Ralph A. Ward, Junior Grand Warden: Brother
T. T. Zee, Grand Treasurer: Brother Alfred S. Lee, Grand Secretary.
-New Age, March, 1949.

AUSTRAUA
Australia is divided into six Masonic areas embracing the six Dominion Grand Lodges. They are: South Australia at Adelaide: New
South Wales at Sidney; Queensland. at Brisbane; Tasmania, at Hobart;
Western Australia, at Perth; Victoria, at Melbourne.
Queensland
On 30th April, 1920, 187 delegates from the Lodges holding under
the District Grand Lodges of England and Scotland attended a preliminary meeting in the Alice Street Temple to inaugurate the flrst
steps toward a United Grand Lodge, only one delegate representing
each Lodge.
The United Grand Lodge of Queensland was thus ushered into
being with 281 Lodges, comprising 95 English, 107 Scottish, and 79

Twelve years of continuous service/
1934-3.5.-Sir Leslie Orme Wilson was installed as Grand Master
by M. W. Bro. W. H. Green in the City Hall, 2,000 Brethren being
present. Delegations were present from Tasmania, Victoria, New
South Wales, and South Australia.
1947-48.-Sir Leslie Wilson was again proclaimed Grand Master
by M. W. Bro. Green.
Quarterly Report on Candidates for Initiation and Joining
"Since the Quarterly Communication of Grand Lodge held on
Wednesday, March 3rd, 1948, the Board of General Purposes has
granted Permission to Ballot for four hundred and eighty candidates,
three hundred and eighty-four for Initiation and ninety..-six for Joining
Brethren.
One hundred and forty-seven applications for Initiation and twentyftve for Joining Brethren have been held over pending receipt of further
information and in the case of ten applicants for Initiation, the Board
has declined to grant permission to ballot, making a total of six hundred
and sixty-two applications dealt with." (Carried).
-Board of General Purposes, 1948.

SOUTH AUSTRAUA
The Annual Communication of Grand Lodge will be held in the
Way Room, Freemasons' Hall, North Terrace, Adelaide, on Wednesday, April 21st, 1948, at 7 :30 p. m.
Grand Lodge will be opened at 7:45 p. m. precisely.

Street Dress
NOTE: :-The M.W. Grand Master desires to meet Grand Officers
and Country Brethren at the close of the Communication at an
informal Festive Board.-F. J. ELLEN, P.G.W., Grand Secretary.
Grand Master Re-elected-1948
The Deputy Grand Master announced:-"A nomination for the
office of Grand Master has been received in the name of M.W. Bro.
the Hon. Mr. Justice George Coutts Ligertwood, Grand Master, and
as no other nomination has been received, I declare him duly re-elected
as Grand Master for the ensuing year."

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Reports of Proceedings of Grand Lodge

Fifty-Years' Veterans

Notwithstanding the directions printed on the inside front cover of
the annual printed Proceedings of Grand Lodge, it would appear from
correspondence and enquiries reaching the Grand Secretary, that many
Lodges fail to receive information on matters of importance which arise
out of the business conducted in Grand Lodge. The Board desires to
emphasize that it is the duty of every Master, to whom, together with
the Wardens and Secretary of his Lodge, a copy of the Proceedings
of Grand Lodge is sent, to see that the members of his Lodge are informed, at the next regular meeting following the receipt of the Proceedings, of any matters affecting Lodges or Masons generally which
arise out of the business of Grand Lodge, inclusive of the Grand
Master's address. The Board hopes that every Master will make a
point of seeing that such information is communicated at the appropriate stage, also that the volumes of Proceedings shall be preserved
among the Lodge records for future reference.

Lodge Secretaries are reminded of the necessity to advise the Grand
Secretary of any members on their registers who are qualified for
recognition as brethren whose association with the Craft as members
of a Lodge has extended over a period of fifty years. A brother who
has served for an aggregate period of fifty years in good standing in
Freemasonry, although such service may not have been continuous, and
although portion of such service may have been served in another Jurisdiction, may, with the approval of the Board, be accorded recognition
as a fifty-years' Veteran and receive the prescribed jewel and bound
illuminated address.

Port Darwin Visit

Dear Sir and Bro.,
You are hereby invited to attend a Special Communication of the
Grand Lodge to be held at the TOWN HALL, HAY STREET,
PERTH, on Monday, 12th April, 1948, at 7:30 p. m. To commemorate the 50th Anniersary of the Initiation into Freemasonry of our Grand
Master.-Grand Secretary.

The highlight of my Masonic activity during the past six months
was the Grand Lodge visitation to Alice Springs and Port Darwin.
The Deputy Grand Master, accompanied by the Grand Director, led the
delegation to Alice Springs. Seventeen other Grand Lodge Officers
from all over the State formed themselves into a Bond's Touring Party
and joined the Deputy Grand Master. They conducted the Alice
Springs Installation and then proceeded by road to Darwin, where I
was able to join them to conduct the first Installation after the resusciation of the Darwin Lodge, which had to suspend its activities when the
Japanese attacked Darwin in February, 1942. The ceremony of Installation with the festive board which followed was a memorable
function. The enthusiasm among the Darwin brethren is amazing, and
the Lodge is overwhelmed by propositions for initiation, joining and
affiliation.
-Grand Master: 1948.

Re California
The building of a new Masonic Temple is under consideration. It
is astonishing to read the reports and the financial statements of the
Grand Lodge of California and to visualise the immense amount of work
entailed in compiling the records. Also the great amount of supervision necessary to ensure effective working of such a huge organization. Many inspectors are appointed and elected and the final report
of the Grand Lodge shows how efficiently these officers perform their
duties.

595

WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Perth, 31st March, 1948

Grand Master's Fiftieth Anniversary in Freemasonry
The Special Communication of Grand Lodge, held on 12th April
last, was attended by approximately 900 Freemas0ns, who came from
all parts of the State to show their appreciation of the services rendered
by our Grand Master over 50 years of Masonic activity in this
Jurisdiction.

Communication From the M. W. Grand Master

It is my great privilege agaiii to extend to you a sincere welcome to
this annual Communication. It is the twelfth annual Communication
over which I have had the privilege of presiding, and I have to thank
you all, brethren, for your continued confidence in me, as shown by reelecting me to the position of Grand Master for a further term.
Brethren, as a whole, only see the result of that work as it comes
before Grand Lodge for report and recommendation. They are not
all aware of the earnest and lengthy consideration given to every question that affects the good of Freemasonry in this State.

596

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Masonic Lodges and Communism"
I must say that I was surprised to hear over the air some two or
three weeks ago, in a religious session statement which associated
Freemasonry with Communism. It came from a Priest of the Church,
who apparently was interested in decrying the Craft. I have, for some
time, admired the attitude of the Roman Catholic Church towards
Communism and have had a very definite opinion that that Church and
Freemasonry are possibly the most forthright opponents of that subersive ideology. I felt compelled when, later, I read the address in print
to regard it as being based upon antipathy towards the Craft, and for
that reason its presumed association with Communism was only another
example of that old adage that "any stick is good enough with which
to beat a dog."
I have lived a fairly long life in this community and have been closely
identified with the work of my own church and with Freemasonry, as
well as with many other public services. I have repeatedly criticised
Communism because, in the words of the broadcast, "of my deep
philosophical disagreement.'' I have never considered it from a standpoint that it threatens the Capitalists' pocket. I do not think that the
protection of Capitalism enters into the question from the standpoint of
Freemasonry any more than it does from the standpoint of the Catholic
Church.
In conclusion, I am pleased to note that true Freemasonry is not
atheistic and that "individual Masons are often enough good men and
our brothers.'" From the Masonic standpoint we can sincerely say the
same of our Catholic brethren.

Re California
The address of Grand Orator William B. McKesson was scholarly,
eloquent, and long. It will be enjoyed by the student with leisure.

VICTORIA
Grand Master, 1948:
General
M.W. Grand Master: I would like to thank you, Brethren, for
coming out this cold foggy evening to attend to your duties in Grand
Lodge.· I wish we could all meet together for a cup of coffee, but that
is not possible. While some of you will be going home, I would like our
country Brethren, and members of the Choir, to partake of a little
hospitality after this meeting.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

597

Irregular Bodies
"I desire to draw the attention of the Brethren to the existence of
certain irregular bodies and adopting, as far as possible, the phraseology
used by regularly established and properly constituted Masonic
Institutions.
"Such irregular bodies, for example, are the Orders known by the
name of 'The Star of the East,' 'The Eastern Star' and 'Co-Masonry.'
· "The Brethren are distinctly warned against having any connection or association in any way whatever with such irregular organisations, which have been formed without the sanction or approval of
this Grand Lodge.
"The Brethren should clearly recognise that the visitation to, or
the recognition of such irregular bodies would be an absolute breach
of their Masonic Obligations, and any Brother acting contrary to this
Pronouncement must expect Masonic punishment.''

Fifty Year Commemorative Jewel
During the year Commemorative Jewels have been presented to 16
Brethren, who have subscribed continuously to Freemasonry for the
past fifty years.
When we tum our eyes to the wider field, the outlook is not so
reassuring. We find there on every hand, strife and danger and
suspicion. I believe these are apparent in the outside world because
so many men have not been inspired with the principles of Freemasonry.
They have no belief in God, no loyalty to King or to country. I believe
we as Freemasons will, sooner or later, have to accept this challenge
that has been thrown down to us as Freemasons and decent living
people. Because if we do not take up and accept this challenge we
may lose those privileges which we value very highly-the right to
worship according to our beliefs, loyalty to our King and faithfulness to
our Country. I would ask all Freemasons to be worthy, so to live and
act that they may exemplify the principles ~f Freemasonry in their
daily workaday lives.

Report of the Grand Inspector of Workings
Unfortunately, it has been reported that in some Lodges more than
two candidates are being admitted prior to the Obligation, this of
course is wrong. In another Lodge the method adopted in closing a
Lodge working in the Third Degree, to resume in the First Degree, is
not in accordance with the instructions as laid down. Such cases are
few and far between, and I need only to draw the attention of the Wor.
Masters concerned, to have the error rectified.
Following the recent Pronouncement relating to Masonic Dress,
I would suggest to Assistant Inspectors of Workings, that they see

599

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that all Lodges adhere rigidly to the requirements of a previous Pronouncement circularized on January 1st. 1927, whereby all Brethren
wearing a dinner or morning coat are required to wear the Apron
outside the coat.
It is very gratifying to report that the Lodges recently Consecrated are displaying an enthusiasm and a Masonic vigour that indicates a successful future for them. and I feel satisfied that if they
continue as they have begun you will not be disappointed.

suitable housing in Wellington, and the Board found it necessary to pay
these members an allowance to cover their increased costs until suitable
accommodation could be found.
Continued difficulty has been experienced in securing an additional
typist for the Office.

598

I pause for a moment to ask, and try to answer the question: Whom
should we admit among us as brethren? There are certain necessary
qualifications for all candidates. First. belief in God. Such belief is too
often taken for granted and treatly lightly. It is true that it must be
stated openly in our lodges, but such statement should not be a matter of
routine, and should be definite and sincere. and, before either ballot or
initiation, the Master should be satisfied of the candidate's faith in a
Supreme Being. The second qualification is good character, to which I
have referred already, and which I need not define, because the conscience of all brethren will show them in what it consists. Third, the
candidate should be in such a position that he is not likely to become
a ·b urden on our funds. Fourth, he must be one whom we can welcome
to our assemblies, who will not cause lack of harmony in the lodge or
discomfort to any of its members. one with whom we can associate
freely as a friend and a brother.

Tasmania (1948)
"As your Grand Master. may I ask you:
1. To be generous in your thoughts. 2. To be jealous of our
privileges. 3. Give serious consideration to your responsibilities-Live
into your life the teachings of Freemasonry. And, 4. Do not be afraid
to acknowledge yourself as a Freemason. Freemasonry stands for all
that is just, noble and good. Please do not misunderstand me--the
Wor. Masters of this jurisdiction will remember those antient charges
and regulations which they subscribed to at their installation.
Evening dress which is the correct Masonic dress is difficult to
procure at present, the dinner dress is gradually coming back. It is not
our desire that members absent themselves on that account, but we do
strongly suggest that. failing either of these. a dark morning dress be
worn. Brethren still have a vivid recollection of Masonic gatherings
prior to the war. The general opinion is that· much has been taken
from the impressiveness of our beautiful ritual by the relaxation of the
correct dress producing an atmosphere not conducive to our sublime
teaching. To the Masters present I make an earnest appeal to rectify
this mistake at their earliest opportunity. May I suggest also that the
Grand Inspectors when replying to the Toast of G.L.• if not unduly
upset by the warmth of their reception, make this subject one of their
main points.
·
God does not want us to do extraordinary things--He asks us to
do ordinary things extraordinarily well. It is not the primary function
of a Lodge to initiate candidates or to look for a record membership.
Our first call should be to grasp the fact that they possess a knowledge
of Masonic Truth.

NEW ZEALAND
Grand Master, 1948: Grand Lodge Office
The Grand Lodge Office staff and equipment were moved to permanent quarters in Wellington in October of last year.
.
Some members of the staff experienced great difficulty in securing

l

Committee Report
I take pleasure in submitting my annual report to you, stating that
matters in connection with our Craft in this Dominion are highly satisfactory. inasmuch as each Lodge continue to prosper, both by adding
many members to their lists and a very good class of citizen, which
augurs well for the success of Freemasonry.

INDEX

FOR

19SO
Page

A
Adams, Chas. Albert, P.G.M •• Reappointed as Trustee of Masonic Homes.............. 301
Alberta - - - -............................................................................................................... 573
Alphabetical List of todcia ..
..........................................._._ 468
Anderson, Charles E., Appointed Grand Organist..................................................._ 301
Annual Election -·------······--·................................................................................. 300
Annual Returns, l9t9--··-··---················'-··-······-························-····-·-............._ 387
Antrim ·--·---··--·----·······--··--·--·--·--···········--··-------·--------··-..................................... 588
Apostrophe to the Flag.-..............- .....................- ..........- .................................._ 482
Application Forms and Investigating Committee Proceedure.._. __________,,....._ 274
Application Forms and lnvestig:iting Committee Proceedure, Report of....._____ 193
Appropriations
·-·-----·--·-..------------!& 287
Aquisition of the Benicia Masonic Temple, Report of Special Committee.......- ....._ 207
Attendance, Ritual, and PlaanC:e.-.......................................................- ........- - 49
Audit of Acle1 ntr
- ....................................................................- .......... - 282
Audit of 1949 .......
·--·---·····.........................................- ......_______ 317
Auditors Report, Endowment Puad.-................- .......................-.........
..,f!lllllill 318
Australia - - - - - - - - - - - -...................................................................................._ 592

B
Bixby Knolls ~
• --·----···------·-----......_.,. 215
Baker, Walton '1'., Grand Master, Nevada, Addressed Grand Lodge........................ 217
Baker, Walton T., Grand Master of Nevada Received with Grand Honors.............. 53
Belfast ---·--·····--·---·-..·----·---···..·······..·--···········-····-----···----- 588
Benicia Lodge No. S
·-·-·-·-·-··---.......-...................
.....; 284
Berkeley Masonic Club House, Report of Trustees..............................---···-··- 163
Berlin .................................................................................................................................... 583
Biography-Edward Henry Siems, Grand Master.................................................._..
1
Board of Control Cmnmittee-...-.........._ ......................................................... -~ 402
Board of Control, Report of..... ,;,
,
·
· - · - - - - 134
Board of Directors Masonic Club House, Los Angeles-Report of....................._
172
Boards of
136
Brazee, Albert J. Jr., P.G.M. of Philippine Islands-Greeted by Grand Master........ 53
British Columbia ................................................................................................................ 574
British Isles ___...........................................................................................................- 584
Budget for 19f!1..J950._.........................................................................................308
By-Laws Committee ......_................................................................................................. 398
By-Laws Committee--Reportof....__................................-.................
, .. ,:aa 200

aelfef...--·-·----·---................._ .........-·-··---·-·-

c
California's Centennials Recall Early Masonic History.............................................. 91
Carlson, C. A., Jr., P.G.M. of Nevada-Greeted by Grand Master.......................... 53
Carr, Obed W.-Appointed A:isistant Grand Lecturer..................................301
Centennial Arrangements
·-----------·-·---·-··-..................--3:17, 298, 292
Centennial Arrangements Committee._
................................................____ 399
Centennial Arrangements-Report of Committee_..................................................-- 174
Charters Committee .......................................................................................................... 398
Charters Committee--Report oL........................- .....................................- · · · - - 215
China ---···-·-·-·..-···-·-·-········-····-·--···-············ .............................................. 591
Colley, Delbert D •..!...Appointed Grand Sword Bearer.......;.•.....•:.................................,. 301
Columbia Temple _ .......................................................................................................... 267

602

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Columbia Temple Restoration Committee·-··--···-··················································- 401
Columbia Temple Restoration Committee-Report oL........·-·····-··-··········-··-·····- 190
Comments re California Correspondence Report............................................................. 488
Comments re Grand Lodge of Califomla-································································- 486

~a:::~!~~:::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :~r
Committee on Credentials-Report of.-················································-······-····--··-·- 214
Concerning the Grand Secretaries.---·······-··-····-················································-· 516
Consolidated Statement of Assets and Llabllitlea....._______...............................- ...304, 305
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.................................306. JIJ7
Constitution Month Observance Committee--·-·········-····-··········--······················-··- 400
Constitution Month Observance-Report of Committee.........·-··········-·····················- 176
Constitutional Boards Committee:.__...·-····-·········-··········-···································-··-·- 402
Constituent Lodges-List oL..-····················-·····-·'··-···-··············---·····- 439
Continued Service to our War Vetenma....................·-····························-··········-··-·- 555
Contributions Through Lod9es.- - - -·········-··-·····-········-·········:.······-····-,.-···-·-- 353
Contributions to Endowment FuncL.-·-··-······-·······-·-·······-··············..···-·-··-·-- 343
Contributions to Masonic Home-Decoto.-···················································-····'··-··- 365
Correspondence Committee ·······-··············-····-························································-····- 160
Correspondence Committee-Report oL........·-···-····-·····--····--··-·-·-·---···- 475
Costodlan Agreement ·--··-···-········--·-·-·-·························································- 279
Covina-Christmas and Entertainment Fund, 1948-1949.............:.............................._ 380
Covina-Contributions to --·-·-·-·········-···-·-·····························-····---········-··········--··- 375
Covina Home-Report of Superintendent..............................- ..·····················-···--- 121
Covina-Names of Realdeutir......_....- .....................·-················-···········-···-···-··-·- 371
Covina-Visitations --··································································-··-·····················- 373
Credentials Committee -·-····-···············--·······························-·-·································- 398
Credential Committee-Report ol--·····-····:·························-······-·-···-···-·-········-·- 214
Cus.todlan Agreement --·-·-···········-·········-···············-·-···-········································- 298

D
Davis, Elbert W.-Appolnted Assistant Grand Lecturer..·-·····-······························- JIJ1
Decisions of Grand Master--.:-············-····--··----·-····················--··,·················- 296
Decoto Christmas and Entertainment Fund, 1948-1949........................................·-····· 367
Decoto--Names of Residents..--·---~···················-·············-························· 356
Decoto Home-Report of Superintendent.........._.............-······---······················--···- 119
De· Molay Committee ---········-············································································- 400
De Molay-Report of Committee-········-··········-~·-··································•·-········---··-··- 158
Details of Masonic Homes.-......~---·····-········-··························;·-······-···-·----- 356
Devotional Services -·-·--···-····-·--··-····-·················-··························--···-· - - - 9
Demits for Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts..............................-276, 281, 294, 298
Directors of Masonic Club Houses Committee•....- ..................:......··········-·-·-··-- 403
Discretionary Expenditures
··············--··--·····-·············-·-······---48. 275
Dispensations Issued - · - - -··-·················································-··························- 297
····--·-·······-················-······-·····-··············-· 570
Dominion of Canada
Drapeau, Louis- C._.:.Elected Senior Grand Warden.·-·····················-····················-·· JIJ1

E
Edwards, J. Howard-Appointed Junior Grand Steward.--·····-··-·····-· · -······ JIJ1
Eldridge, Shalor C.-Grand Master of Oregon Received with Grand Honors........ 53
Eldridge, Shalor C.-Grand Master of Oregon Addressed Grand Lodge-····-·····- 178
Elected OfBcers of Grand Lodge Since Organization.......- ..········-·······--··-···············"· 454

603
Page

ii::~~;:t t::~Commtttee-~~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::==:~:=::::::::::::. ~~;

Endowment Fund-Contributions to
.........-·-···----··...·-·-·:....._________...;__ ·343
Endowment Fund-Grand Treasurers FUlld-..........•.....................................- ..- .............. 319
Estimated Income and Expeme.-.----·····-·······-········································-····-···· 290
Eubanks, J. R.,Superintendent. Decoto Home-Report.........................................••__ 119
European
····---·-·························-···-·····-·---··-··-··-·--·- 580
Expenditures for Fraternal lntercourse_........................................-47, 132, 275, 281, 292
Expenditures for Public Schools Week.------························-·-···-············-~ 51
Expenditures of Public Schools Week Observance.............................•......................_ 272
Extinct Lodges
-··-···-················--·····---·············-·····················-············- 450

F

~:ir:e;; ~1!:tt~'':__=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::~~=:=:::::::::=~:::::::::==:::::::= ;~~

Finance Committee-Report of-·-···················-·····-··········-····-·-·-----...-....- 282
Foreign Grand toclgcs
-···········-·..·--···-.............._ .....,..........--..-...:-....._ 463
Form of Application for Degrees..•....•....-····----································-·····----- 50
Form of Notice for Election of Trial Commissioners..................................................•• 270
Freemasonry vs. Communism
...................................................................___..._ 560
Fraser, James T •• P.G.M.-Presmt.-································-························-······-·-····- 128
Friday, October 14, 1949

~~:!:1!ns~:~n-:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_-: ~
G
Gayle, E. F., P.G.M. of Louisana-Greeted by Grand Master..............._......:......_

53

g:~:~:: ~;!:i:~c~-=::=:=···~-·-=:::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~===::= ~~

Georgetown Lodge No. 25-New Charter Presented to.................................·-·-··-- 240
Georgetown Lodge No. 2S-··
··············-······-··-···-····--.--· - 284
George Washington National Masonic Memorial.·-···---·-····································-·--- 289
Gilmore, Bernard-Appointed Senior Grand Deacon.................·-·····-········..:···-- J/Jl
Good and Welfiare.___-----------······························-···--····-- 499
Grand Chaplain-Paul Reagor Devotional Services.....................................·--··-· 9
Grand Lecturer-Report of.--.....,.---·······-··-·-·-·························-·
85
Ritual Committee ---···········-··········································-·······-·--···-···········-·· 86
Assistant Grand 'treaaurer---··-·····························-.··················-·····-·······-···- 86
Opening and Closing CeremcmY·-············-···········-····················~·-···-······-···-·...,- 86
Installation Ceremony -----·············-································--····-··········----- 87
Book of CenaKiafta ._.........-.............................................................-.........·-··-- 87

.

~:~~=~=:: :==::::::=:=:=::::::::::=~~::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::-:.=:::::::=::::::: i~

Conclusion -

················-·····················································--······-····-····--- 88

8::~ £::::s ~lgn .==::::::::=::::::::::=:::::::::==:::=::::=::::::::::::::=::::=:=::::::=:=:= :

Grand Lodge Funds.....
··-··········--···--··--····--···------~ 316
Grand Lodge Officers Hotel Bxpeqse............................................--···-··-··-···---- 269
Grand Lodge Ritual...-·-·---·------····-··················-··························"'··-······- 268
Grand Lodge Ritual-Report of S~ Committee...................................................... 149
Grand Masters Comments and Travela----------··········,············- ········-··--..._ 510

604

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Page

Grand Masters Message -----····--··················-·····--·-·--··-·······-·-····-·····---· li
Cooperation and lnlormatioa.......- ..·················-··-··········-······-··;·-···-······-····-···- 1i
Condition of the Gaft...---·-··-··--···-·--·-··--·--:-·-·-'--------~- li
Constitutions -·--···-·-····· ····-·-····-·-············-········-····-·-··-·--······-·····-····- 15
New Lodges ---························-················-··-················································· 15
Travel and Visitations....•.....•.•.•...•- ....•..- .•··-······---·····-········---······---·····-·· 15
Sunday Breakfasts -·····--······················································································· 17
Grand Masters c.on&renc:e·-·-·······················-·····-·-······-···--···--····-······--··-· 17
Hawaiian Islands ---·-······························-··-······························-··-····················· 18
Distinguished Visitors ·······-····················································································· 19
Appoinbnents -··--··--·······································-·······-·-············-················-······· 20
Centennial Celebrations -···························-·················-·····································-··· 21
Special Relief -···-·-·---·····························-····························-························· 22
Grand Lodge RegaHa
·--·····-··-··-----···-···-·...·------·------·--·---·---·--·· 22
Columbia Temple RestoratiOll-........- ..--------··-··-··-·-···-······-·······--···-~ 22
lnspectorial Districts ···-·-····-······-··········································································· 23
Masonic Funeral Service................·----·--···-····-····-·····-········-··--··--····-··--··· 23
Hotel Expenses -··················································-····························-··················· 25
Succession of AO&--··-····-··-··--·--·-··--···---····-··-·-·----·-·-·-·- 25
Minimum Dues ----··················-····································································-····· 26
Outdoor Degree -···-···-·--················-····-························-··-····-···--·······- 27
Masonic Club Within a Lodge_...·-·······-·······-·······-··········-··-·--···-······-·- 27
Moral and Pbyaical QualiflcatloDs-----················-·····················:...···-······-·-····...: 27
Suspension of Master-·-·····--·············--····--·············-·········-···-··-·-··:_...... 28
Miscellaneous -·--·--························-······························-··············-············-···- 28
Decisions -··-···-···-··························································-···································· 28
~nd Lodge of China
__..._... _·-·····--·-·-·····--···---------- 31
Massachusetts and Negro Freemasonry..--························--·~~-·--······· 31
Form of Application and Investigation of Appliants.......................- ............~....... 35
Additional Expense -···-·········································-·········-······························-····· 36
Boards and Committees.....--················--······-··-··········-·····-····-·····--···-·-·-··-· 36
Degrees Beyond Jurildictioa.__.......·-·---······-····-··----·-·······-···-·----·- 36
Conclusion -················-·······-·················-··················-····················--···················· 37
Exhibit A --······-·····-·-······-········-····················-··························-········-··············· · 39
Exhibit B ·······-··········································································································· iO
Exhibit C ··-·-····-········································-····-······-····-················-················-····· it
Exhibit D -·-··-·-····························-····················-··············-·······-···-·-·······:· i6
Grand Orator--Report
91
Grand Secretary-Report
72
General Offices -···---···········-·················--··'··-············---··-·····--·-····-···· 72
Duplicate Charter ·-··-·-····-·····················-·····················································-:···· 72
Endowment Fund OverpaymenL.....____________________..,..................·--·-·····-· 72
Membership --··-········-············-··-···-·········-·······-····-···-···-··········-············-··· 72

°'-·······-·--·--·-···-·-··-·-···-··-·---·-··____._
oL.·-··-----···----------·

~~~~I=~~~~~}~~~f:~~~~ ~

Amendments to By..Lawa........--········-··----·····-·-·--·-----··-- 76
Resolutions -········--········--·······-·······················-·········-···-··-················-·····-···· 79
Trial Records ··--··························-················-·······················-············-················ 79
Fifty Year Buttons...---··········································-····················-························· 81
Grand Treasurer--Report o
- - · - - ·..- · · - - · - - - - - - - 5i
Grand Treasurers Report-Endowment Pund.................- .................,_.••.••..- .....:.._ 319

605

Gravel Range Lodge No. S9--·····-····--·--··-··--··-·--·-·-·-·-····---- 284
Grievances Committee ...................................................................................................... 397
Grievance Committee-Report.of..__............_ .................- •.--·-·--····-···-····-··-·- 240

H
Hankerson, Asa H., P.G.M. of Washington Greeted by Grand Master.................._ 53
Hanshaw, Mervyn E.-Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer......___________ 301
Harvey, George R.. P.G.M. of Philippine Islands Greeted by Grand Master........ 53
---··---··--- 52
Harvey, George R.. Presented to Grand Lodge__
Harvey, George R.. P.G.M. of the Philippine Islands-Report of_··-···--·-·····- 259
Harwell, Frank Jr.-Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer-···---····--······-- 301
Heal, Henry C., Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons Received
with Grand Honors ------··---·---··---···-·-··--·-······-···-···•·-- 163
Henry, Robert M., Superintendent Covina Home-Report of...................................... ~~1
Herms, William Brodbeck....-·-···-··········-·-····..:....................................................... _.. 6
148
History Committee

BudQet..-....-----·-·-----·--··-----·----

~=:~~=:n-=-=::=::=::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:: ~~;

Horwege, Alvin A.-Appolnted Grand Tiier..............:...............---···-·-·-·-:...........- 301
Houser, J. Everett-Appointed Grand Orator............................·-······---·-···---- 301

I
Income ·-···--···--·--···············································································-·····················- 295
Individual Contributors .................................................................................................... 353
In Memorium-Past Masters of Constituent Lodga............................·-··----·--- 230
lnspectors--List of --················-···-···-·-···-·-············-~---·····························-·······- 460
Inspectors Residence -·-····-···-···-·-··--·-··-···---·-····--···---·-----....:.-.i79• 293
Investment Committee -··---·-····----··----······--··---·-·-·---·---W1 265

~~j;n~-~--~=::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=== ~~r
J

Jurisprudence Committee -~·····-······-·······-···································································-·· 384
Jurisprudence Committee--Report of---·--·-------·--;
292

K
Keesling, Francis V .. P.G.~.-Re-elected Grand Treasurer...............................;........ 301

L
Lee, Alfred S.. Grand 'secretary of China Greeted by Grand Master·-···-·---···- 53
Lee, Alfred, Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge of China-Addressed Grand Lodge- 299
Library Committee ---·-····--···-·-··--·-··-·----~··-·······-·······-·---- 398
....,...- ..........---··----·--··-·~·-·····:··-··-·-·-·--·-·- ~;8
List of Ap,liqtnll
List of Constituent LoclQes .• ..........- ..-·----····-···-·-·--··..-···-------- 9
List of ~
.
--····-···-········-····-·--·--··-···-···-·------···-- 460
Lodge Financing Committee...--·······-····-·········-················-················-·-···--····- 399
Lodge F111a0cing-Report of Committee............................................................_....... 178
Lodges Get Too Large
·-·······-···--····---····---··-······-·;_____ 523
Lodges--List of Alpabetlcal............·-··--····--·-·---·--····--··--·------ 468
Los Angeles Masonic Qub House-Report of Board of Directors.............................. 172

606

INDEX

INDEX

607
Page

M

0

Martin, Willsie-Appolnted Grand Chaplain.•...........:....- ...............................,...•....:_ 301
Masonic Club Within a Lodge-------····-······························································· 267
Masonic Conditions in the Phllipplnes.-·-·································--···································~ 259
Masonic Education --····-············-···········································································-···· 548
Masonic Funerals ·---······································~·-·•······························--···'······-·· 297

O'Bryan, James W.-Appolnted Grand ManhaL ......................................................• 301
Office Expenses ·······-·-··-·-··--···-····-····-···························································· 286
Officers In Grand LodgL.....·--·-······--·· - -·····················-····························-·· 7
Officers of Grand Lodge Elected Since OrganizatlOD.......-......................................... 454
Oliphant, Henry D.-Re-appointed Assistant Grand Secretary................................ 301
Olmsted, George H-Appolnted Junior Grand Deacon.............................................• 301
One Hundredth Annual Communication......•-............................................................... 7
Ontario ···-········-·······-·······-··-··························································································· 574
Outdoor Degree ······················-························································································ 268
Overpayment by A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. MS-······-·····································-········ 282

~==~:~ ~=:~ ~c:!~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= ~~

Masonic History Publication Committee......·-·-····························································- 400
Masonic History Publication-Report of Committee.·-················································ 187
Masonic History Publication...--··--·-··-·-----·················-······························--·- 270
Masonic History-Report of---··················'···-··-·--·---··············-----···--··-··- 146
Masonic Homes -·--·-··································································································· 289
Masonic Homes Audlt.---·-··-···············································································-···-·t- 324
Masonic Homes-Balance Sheet.-·-·········································································· 327
Masonic Homes-Cash Receipts and Disbursements.................................................... 328
Masonic Homes-Details oL--·----··-·-··············-~·-··································-• 356
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund AudiL..·-····················································-·········· 318
Masonic Homes-Statement of Revenue and Expensd.•.....................................~........ 330
Masonic Information Bookleta...-...'-·--·--········--················································ 273
Masonic Information Committee.·-·········'····························'········································- 400
Masonic Information-Report oE--······-··-······-·····-············..··-·············-···-·····-·····• 161
Masonic Landmarks --····-······················································································-- 525
Masonic Libraries -·-·······························································································-····· 538
Masonic Publications ·-························································································-·········- 540
Masonic Temple Association of California, lnc.-Report of................................ ____ 206
"Masonic Eternal Quest"
Very Reverend W. Paul Reagor, Grand Chaplain_................................-.......... 9
McGuire, Robert Kenneth. ...·-·····--·-····--··--···-··········-····························--····· 219
Membership Information -··-·······-·································-···············-·········--········--- 297
Memorials _. ---·----······················································································-····-- 353
Memorial Building Committee-··-························································-······-··-··-·- 401
Memorial Building Committee-Report oL..........................·-·-·········~-·--·-···- 175
Memorial Services ---·-··--·--···················································-················- 218
Message of Grand Master------·····················-················································- 14
Method of Receiving a Plea of Gullty_..................................................-:._129, 271, 281
Mexico ·-·--·-·-·--··-··---·--·············································:.········-- - - 569
Meyer, Elsworth-Elected Grand Master..........·-·····················································-- 301
Miscellaneous Expense -··--··--···-···········-·······-·····························-····················- 287
Monday, October 10, 1949
¥

:f~~!':ns~:~:,~··-:::-_:-~::::::::=::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::=:::= 5;

Morrison, Claude H.-Acted as Master of Ceremonies................................................ 302

N
Necrology --·-············-····----··-·-··········-···················--···-········-···········-- 558
Necrology Committee -····-···········································-········-··-···-·-···-·····-·-·······-· 399
Necrology Committee-Report of-····-·-·······-·····-···----·----·~ 218

E~~~~~:~ct ~-;~~~~::=:~==::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::=:::::~~~::::==::~ ~!
Number of Members in New Lodge.............................·--··-······-····--··-----131. 264, 293

p
Paragraphs Worth While--------··--·--·--·-·--·····················-~---···-····· 529
Part Grand Masters Present at Roll Call, October 10, 1949.-·······················-·········· 8
Past Masters of Constituent Lodges-In Memorlum.--·······················-····-········-····· 230
Paulsen, Arthur-Elected Deputy Grand Master...·-················································· 301
Pay of Members Committee.---·-··--····--····-·······-··························-·················· 398
Pay of Members Committee-Report oL-·---·--··-············-··········-··-··-·-- 205
Pettus, William B.-Presentation to Grand Lodge......- .............................................. 302
Pflueger, Paul A.-Re-appointed Assistant Grand Treasurer.................................... 301
Philippine Islands -··---·--;-·---·-·-·············-·····--·-····-···································-····· 589
Philippines-Masonic Conditions in the.--...·-·--··········--···-·························· 259
Pinkerton, Willis R., Grand Master of Arizona Received with Grand Honors........ 53
Pinkerton, Willis R., Grand Master Arizona Addressed Grand Lodge..·-··---····-·· 217
Plummer, John Mathew.·--··---·--·····--····---·----·------·······-······-····· 222
Policy and General Purpose Committee-·-·--·--···················-········-···-·'·······-········· 397
Policy and General Purposes-Report of Committee-···············-·······-············-····.:... 264
Policy and General Purposes-Report oL·--···-····-··--····--····-······-····-·····-·-····- 89
Grand Lodge of Lower California....-..·························-·····························-········ 89
Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leoa.-····-·········-···-·····--·--·--·······-··-···-···--·--··-·· 89

~~~:::~=~e~~~e~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::===:::::::::::::: ~~~

Prince Edward Jalapd
___ ...................- •... ~ .........................--...···-···--·····--· 575
Proudfoot, Harry D., P.G.M .• Grand Secretary of Oregon Greeted by
Grand Master
..-., _____________ _sj, 299
Providing for Change of Meeting
79
Publication of History-----············-···························-················-······-- 285
Publication of tJata of Applicants-...................................................................______ 273
Public Schools Week Committee.-.............................--·--------···-····-·····-·-·-- 400
Public Schools Week-Report oL--···-···-·-··-·········--···-··-···-··-····-·-·;..- 101
Purchase of Benicia Temple·--·······-·········-····························-···············-·---·-·--··- 268
Purchase of Old Benicia Temple-_.._.._.........................·-··-·········.:···-····-·······'·········- 50
Prudent Man Rule.----··- ··································-··········-·······-···-·-····--···-··- 282

Plaa..:......._________......:....:.:.:.........·--···-·-

Q
Quebec - - - · -····-··-·-··-·······-··········--····-··········-·-·······················-·····-·······-·- 575
Queensland ·······-································-·····················-··-·-·······-·········-·····-········--······ 592

608

INDEX

INDEX

Report of Committee on:-(Continued)

R
Reagor, Paul-Grand Chaplain Devotional Servtc:ea...--·········-···-····-··--··-

9

Recognition of Continuous Servlc:e-----········-·-········--·····-·------· - 5H
Refund of Fees
·
··---·········-·--········--·-···-···-···--··----· 295
Refund of Homes Contribution---····-····-····-···-···-······--··-·-·····-·····-·--·····--·-· 295
Registration and Mileage Paymenta.....-················-···-··-~····---··--······-···-·--- 404
Reimbursements
····-····-··--········-----··-···-·· - - · - · -·- 138
Report of Committee on:
Application Forms and Investigating Committee Proceedure.·-·- ·······-·······-·· 193
By-Laws ..
·--·-----·-····-····-····--·-·-·- 200
Centennial Arrangements -·-······-···········-'-··-······---······-·--····-····--·····-·--- 174
Charters
--·--···············-··········-·····--·---······---- 215
Bixby Knolls Lodae---···-······-··-··--·----·-·····-·--····--·-·- 215
Ponderosa Lodve --····-···-·······=·····~·--··-······--··········-·--··-"·-··-- 215
Santa Ynex Lodee---··--·-·······--·-···········--·····---·--··---..; 216
Rosemead Lodge -·············-·····················--·······-'····-······-···············--·-·-- 216
Columbia Temple RatU"atlon...........- .....................-············-····--···-··-··-·--:.-. 190
Constitution Month Observance.....................·--··········-·······-········--·············-- 176
Correspondence
·-······-···-···········-··---·······----··----IS». 475
Credentials --···-·····-·-···-··-························----···········-···-··-··-···---- 214

~:ia~:~ay --···--=~=~==::=::::::::=:::=:~~:::::::=::===:=:=::=::====:==-··-~ ~~~

Audit of Accounts ·-·--...........- .....:..................................-...···-·-·---·-- 282
Prudent Man Rule-..
_
-·-······--·········-·-·-···-·- 282
Overpayment by A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645..-······-·········-·-··--·······- 282
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123
:...-··········--·----· 283
The Columbia Temple Restoration--·-······-····················-··-············----·- 283
Benicia Lodge No. S
·---··-·-·--·-····-·--__:_·-- 284
Gravel Range Lodge No. S9--·-··----··········-.:..····-·-···--·-- 284
Georgetown Lodge No. 2S_
. --·-··-···--··-;·~·-·-·····-·--·--- 284
Publication of Hiltmy--····-- ···--·······--··-···········--·-·-··---···-- 285
Office Expenses ~--·-···-·--·····--·-··-····-··--···-····------ 286
General Expenses - · ·'·······-············-···-···-··-·--····--···---·--······-·-·- 286
Miscellaneous Expmae-·····-·-··-···········-···-··--······-··-·--·-- 287
Appropriations _
··-···-···········--··-··-···········-·····-·-·· · - 287
Centennial Arrangements - - ---·····-····-·····-·-·----······-·- - - - 289
George Washington National Masonic Memorial....................................- 289
Masonic Homes
···-----···········-······--·······-····- 289
Estimated Income and Expense_--···---···-·······------··-·- 290
Grievances
···-····--·····•···----····--···-··-··- 240
Jurisprudence
··-·····--·····--·-·········-····-·······-·-·-·-··--··- 292
Centennial Arrangements ·-·········-·-··-·········--·············--···-·····-·-·--··- 292
Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse...............................- ..·········-··- ····-·- 292
Transfer of Membership to New Lodge.-..--···--···-·---·--·----· 292
Notice to Elect Commission..-..·---··············-·········-·············--··-···- 293
Number of Members in New LodgL--.--·····------···-····-·-·-- 293
Inspectors Residence .
· - -····-······-····-··-······-· -······- 293
Demits for Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafta....·-··-·--·-··--·- 294
Refund of Fees
•
·---··-··-··········---·-·- 295
Refund of Homes Ccotributiaa..-·····-··-·-·-·-·······-···············-·-··-······-- 295
Decisions of Grand Muter---········-·--·-·--·-.- --····-·---- 296
···-·-···--·-··- --··-···-·--···-·- - 297
Dispensations Issued

609
Page

Membership Information --·············-···········-····--··-···-·-···········-·-···-··-· 297
Masonic Funerals -··················-······-····-··········-··············-·······-······-··--· 297
Custodian Agreement ···········-·············-·--······-···································-···· 298
Demits for Entered Apprentices and Pellow Crafts-··-···--··-·--·····- 298
Lodge Financing -·--···----·······-···--·--···--····-········----···---··-·-·- 178
Masonic
· - - 187
H6
Masonic History
History -·-····--···-····-··················-·········-···-············-··-·-···
Publication......_ ...........................____________________
Masonic Information - ·-·········-···-··········-·----···--·-······-···--····· · -· - · - 161
Memorial Building - - - - -····--··-··-··--·-·-······-·--·-···-··- ---····- 175
Necrology
-....---······--·-···-·--·-··----·-·--·-·--···- 218
Memorial Service ···--···························-·-······-·-····-·········-···············-·- 218
Robert Kenneth McGuire ···-············--·····-···········-········-··········-·--····· 219
Milton Thomas Farmer -·····-···············-····-···-·-····--··-···-····----·-- 220
John Matthew Plummer -·····-··-····-······-··············--·········-··-···-·-·-- 222
Benjamin Green Wright ·····-········-······--··········-·········-·····-···-·········-··-· 222
Edmund Bardwell Skinner ·········-···--·-···-·----~··········--··-···----··--- 225
William Brodbeck Herms -····-····-·························-···-········-··--·-···-····--· 226
Pay of Members -··--·-·······--·····-··-········-·-·········-·-······-··---············--·-·· 205
Policy and General Purposes...·--···-··--·····-···-·--··--·-·------.89. 264
Masonic History of California._·---···
· --------·- 264
New Lodges ·-···---~-----·····-······-···-··---·····-··-············-·--·--·· 264
Investment Committee ········-···············-··-·-······-·-··-··-~··-·-··--- 265
Standing Resolution -······-·-··········-·-·········--··········-····-··-·····---·-· 265
Columbia Temple -···--····--·-·······-·······--·--······-···--·- ············-·-·-- 267
Masonic Qub Within a Lodge--··----- - 267
Westchester Lodge Per Capita Taz__..........·--·····-·---·--··-- 267
Transfer of Membership to New f.odge..- - - - · · - - - - - - - - - 267
Outdoor Degree ·------·---·············-··--··········---·-······-- 268
Grand Lodge Ritual ···-·······--··························-······-······--··········-····-- 268
Purchase of Benicia Temple----·-···-.....-- 268
Grand Lodge OfBcers Hotel Expense__..----~---·-·---- 269
Masonic History Publication ···--··-····-······-······-----··-·-·--····---· 270
Form of Notice for Election of Trial Commissioners.....- ·-···-··-········-·- 270
Method of Receiving a Plea of Guilty
··--·
271
Expenditures of Public Schools Week Observance......-.............................. 272
Masonic Information Booklets -·--···--····------·-·········-·-- 273
Application Forms and Tnvestigating Committee Proc:eedure-···-············- 274
Discretionary Expenditures ---···-----·---·-··--··-··--··275
Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse--·-----··---·-···-- 275
Demits for Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts.---·····----··-- 276
Postponements of Lectures --··-···-···-··--·······-···-··--··-····-··--·-- 277
Centennial Arrangements -·····-··-·-··-···----····--····--···-. - · - 277
Custodian Agreement -·-·-····~····-····-···········-····--·""·-···------ 279
General Conferences -··--····-·--·-···--··----·--·-·---·--- 279
Inspectors Residence -·····- ····- - · · - · - · - - -·-·----·
- 279
Masonic Funerals
··--····-----·· 280
Method of Receiving a Plea of
281
Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse.----·-···-···-·---..,...-·· 281
Demits for Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts_···-···-···-····--·-- 281
Public Schools Week-··-····-········--··-·····--·---·-··--·101
Returns
--·································--··-·····--·-·-······-·---~- 188
Segregation - - -- ---········-······-··----······-·--····-···-·----···-···-- 125
Report of Board of ControL-····-··-·--···- -· -·134
Board of Control -·-·--···-·-·-·--··-·-···-··---··--·-----·-·-- 134

Guilty______

610

INDEX

Report of Board of Control-(Continued)

INDEX

Page

Boards of Relief --················································-··············································· 136
Employment Bureaus ·····································-················-·····································- 137
Appropriations ·--································-···········································-······-··············· 138
Reimbursements ·-·····-·························································-··-································· 138
Conclusion ···-·····-·-··--····-······-·······-··--···-···--·-···-···--······························· 139
Report of Board of Directors M3sc:mic Club House, Los Angeles................................ 172
Report of Contributions Endowment Punc:L.·-··············-············-············-··········;... 343
Report of Grand Lecturer--······-····-·····'·-·····························-···············-············· 85
Report of Grand Orator-·-···-·-···-···--·--················--··················-····•······-·-·- 91
Report of Grand Secretary--·········-····-···:..···············································-··--·-···· 72
Report of Grand Treaauttr---······························-·······················-····--···················· 54
The Prudent Man Rule--················································--·····-············-··· 57
Investment Scope Generally - ·-·····················-················································· 60
Can Invest ID Stoc:b...------······················-···-·······;_.._.......,...-······-···· 60
Common Trust Issue Reaolved.--·······························-······························ 60
Excerpts from Common Pnx:eedurea...-····················································--··· 61
Type of Investments --·-··· · ---·-··························································· 62
From Petition of The Board of Trustees·--···············-·····························-- 62
Memorandum Opinion -···-·--··········-·-···-··············································· 65
From Degree Determining Power of Trustees..................-.......................... 68
U. S. Savings Bonds.-······-··········-·············································· 70
U. S. Treasuries by Maturitie&.----·········-·············-···.:.-········'-- ·-··-······ 71
Report of Masonic Homes Endowment BoarcL.............................................................. 140
Purpose - ·-···························- -································-····················-················-··- 140
Object --·············--········- ······-················································-·····················-··- 140
Plan -----··-·········--···-····-···-············--·················-·-··············-···---·-·········-· 140
Performance ·-·-········································-·········································-····-·-········- 141
Accomplishments ·---·-···························································································- 141
Appreciation --··------··················································································· 141
Contributions Through Lodges ·····················································--········-··············· 143
Individual Contributors ····-··················································································-- 143
Memorials - - - - - · · ······-·····································-- ································-- 143
Honorable Mention ---·-········-······-·--·-····-··································-·········· 143
Report of Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc...........•.-··-···········-··-·-·- 206
Report of Special Committees on:
Aquisition of the Benicia Masonic Temple.·-········-·················-~·-·····-···-·······-··- 207
Grand Lodge Ritual ··-·--·--······················-························································ 149
Special Taxation Committee--·························································-········-······· 189
Trial Proceedures -··········-··-·--··-- ···········································:................... 153
Report of Trustees, Masonic Club House, BerktleY-··-····························- ···········-··:.. 163
Exhibit I····- · - - - · · -·········-··························································- ·····-············ 168
Exhibit II ------······························································'··--·-·············--······ 169
Exhibit Ill -··-····-···-··--·-··-·-·--······························································ 171
Report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes............................•...'·····-··············-······- 114
Building Operations -··-········-······································-················-····················· 114
Entertainment ---·---~---··············································-····-··········-······-······· 115
Summary of Income and Cott......-·····-·-·····················-··---····----~---·-·- 116
Visitations to Covina ----······················································-························ 117
Superintendent-Decoto Home - ···-·······································································-. 119
Superintendent--Covina Home ·-·-·····-··-··························-·····-···························· 121
Resolutions:
Expenditures for Fraternal Intercourse-··························································-··- 47
Notice to Elect Commtutoa.....~...................................................................-.... 47
Form of Application for Degnea...-················-··············---··-····-·------·- 48

611
Page

Resolutions-( Continued)

Discretionary Expenditures -····-·····-·····································-······························· 48
Attendance, Ritual, and PlnaDce-·····························································--·-····- 49
Form of Application for [)egrees.._-·················-·····································-·········· 50
Purchase of Old Benicia Temple...· -·····················································- ············ 50
Expenditures for Public Schools Week.......;.......~................................~................. 51
Membership Information --············---- ······························································ 52
Providinjl f~r Change of Meeting Place.................................·--····-··-··········-····· 79
List of Applkanta.---··
·······························································- 128
Method of ReceivJDg a Plea of Guilty_............................................................... 129
Transfer of Membership to New Lodge-·····--·~·-··--·····-····························--·:.·- 130
Number of Members in New Lodge_...:...:...--···-··················-···-·····--~----- 131
Investment Committee -·····-···-···-··-·····················································-··········· 131
Standing Resolution -··-······-··--·-·········································-························ 132
Expenditures for Fraternal lnlttc:OW'le---·············································-··········-- 132
Grand Lodge Rltual.....-·········'··············-········-·······················-···- ·····················-···- 258
Returns-Annual --·············· ........................................................................................ 387
Returns--Committee ·-·-·--··············-·······································································- 399
Returns-Report of Coaimittee.--·······---~----··············································-··············-·- 188
Ritual Committee ······-----·························································································· 400
Roll Call, October 10, 1~---···········--·-···-············-·················'··················-········-· 7
Rosemead Lodge····-··-·-···--················-····---···-················································ 216
Rosenstock, Chrstian W .-Presented to Grand Lodge_··- ·········································- 52

s
Sandty of the Temple....._________........,..•---···-----·-·----~....... 518
Santa Ynex Lodge --~---···············································-··························-·-·-··---···-···· 216
Saskatchewan --·················································-····································-·········-··-······- 578
Scotland ···-·-··--··-··---·-···················-··············································-·········-·--········ 586
Segregation-Report of Committee -··························································-··-········· - 125
Sessions of Grand Lodge:
Monday Momlng -·······--··············································- ··-········- ····················--- 7
Monday Afternoon -··········································-·············-··············-·············-···-· 53
Tuesday Morning --·································-·······················--·······- -··--·-····- 128
Tuesday Ahernoon -································--·-·-································-··-···········- 162
Wednesday Morning ·········-····························-······················-···-·-···-················· 206
Thursday Morning --····························································································· 240
Thursday Ahernoon ··············-·············-·······································-···············-·······- 2M
Friday Morning -·····································································································- 279
Friday Afternoon ·····-····-··-······-·--···················-··········································- 300
Seymour, Kent 0.-Appointed Grand Standard Bearer--········--················~----······ 301
Shattuck, Francis K.-Appolnted Assistant Grand Lecturer.........·-···························· 301
Siems, Edward Henry-BiographY-····---·································································
1
Skinner, Edmund Bardwell ············--··---·----···········-········································· 225
Smith, Myron E.-Re~appointed Trustee of Masonic Home·-·············-···················- 301
Social Security and Unemployment Tax Committee·--·············································. r·· 400
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123---····---····················-·····- -·-···········--·········-····-····-···· 283
South Africa -·········-····-································-····-···-···---·-···:·-······················-···~- 588
South Australia ···································································-······--··············------·' - 593
Spain -··-·-·-················································-·····································-··-···············- 582
Special Appendix ·····-··································-········-··-·····························-···················-··· 303
Special Committees -------···-·--·-······-························"·············-·· 400
Special Committee on Grand Lodge Ritual-Report of--·--···-···-···---·-··--·- 149
Special Committee on Trial Proceedure-Report of--··-···-·-················-·-······-·- 153

612

INDEX

INDEX

613

Page

Page

Standing Committees ---······-·············-·-·-··--------·······--·-···- 397
265
Standing Resolution
Statistics --·--·····--·--·-··---····---···-·-----·------·--·-··-- 479
Statistics, Masonic Homes -··········-·-······-·······-·--···-····-~·-···-··········------· 384
Steves, John Henry-Escorted to
299
Sweden -----·-·--··-···-·---··-·----·····- - - - · - - · · - - · · - - · - - 582

Wilson, Lloyd E., P. G. M.-Re-elected Grand Secretary--··-··················-········-- 301
Whiting, Randolph V., P.G.M.-Telegram to Grand Lodge............................·--··· 206
Whitsell, Leon 0.-PresentatiOD of GaveL.·-··-··---··-····································- 302
Wright, Benjamin Green -····-·-----·········-·········--·················-·--···-······-· 222

-------···-·--···-··----···--·---132.

EaaL.---··--·....:·-··-----·-----T

Tasmania
·----·--·-------···----·-·-·---··--···---···-·Taylor, Will-Presented
to Grand Lodge..______________.
.• 598
52
Taylor, William H., P.G.M. of Philippine Islands-Greeted by Grand Master........ 53
Taxation-Report of Special Committtt
.
189
Telegram of Condolence Sent to Past Master James T. Fraser..·-··-·------- 13
Telegram of Congratulations Received from International Order of Jobs Daughters 128
Telegram of Congratulations Received from Samuel E. Burke·-··--·---·--····-·- 128
Telegram Received from Past Grand Master Randolph V. Whiting.___________ 206
Telegrams Sent to Absent Past Grand Masters.....·--·-·-.:..-·----·--··--- 13
Testamentary Gifts --····-····---···-··---···--···-·····-···-···-··-···-···-··- 353
The Columbia Temple Ratcratlon..-·--·--·-·--··----·-·-·-··-----·-.- 283
The Horizon of PrftlDUClftry
···------·---···~ 551
Thursday, October 13, 19f9
.
.
Morning Session --·--·--·--···-··-··-·-·-··--·---··--·--··-- 240
Afternoon Session ··--·-··-----···---········-··--····--·-···--·-·-··--·- 264
Transfer of Membership to New Lodge.....------··----····--130, 267, 292
Trial Proceedures-Report of Special Committee-····--··-·------ 153
Trial Records-Report of Grand Secretary.....
.
79
Grievance Committee --····-------··---··--·····-·······-·-···-· 240
Triggs, Arthur H.-Appointed Grand Pursulvan
----···---·-·--·-··--- 301
Trowbridge, Clarence A.-Appointed Senior Grand Steward...---·-·--···-- 301
Trustees Masonic Club Home, Berkeley-Report .o
- - - - - · 163
Trustees of Masonic Homes Committee·--·--··-·······-··-----·-·:········-······-··-·- 402
Trustees of Masonic Homes--Report o
114
Tuesday, Octoer 11, 1949
Morning Sessioo --····-----·-····--·-·······-···------·-·-·----·-- 128
Afternoon Session ·----·---·--·-·--··-····----·····--·-----·-- 162

v
Victoria - - · - · - - - · ·
···-·----······-·-··-····-·--··-···---- 596
Visitations to Covina
373
Visitations-Masonic Home, Decolo.------··-·-····-··-·-···--· 363
Von.Kansky, Walter H. E.-Elected Grand Lecturer.----·······-·--····---·- 301

Heme....-.-------·- ---·---·----w

Warlow, Chester Harvey-Message o
.
_
14
Warren, Arthur H.-Elected JWlior Grand Warden----·-··-----·--·--- 301
Wednesday, October 12, 1919
Morning Session -·-·---·····---····-···-··-·-·-·····-··--·-····---·--·-·-. 206
Westchester Lodge Per Capita Ti
267
Western Australia - · - - · · - - - - - - - - - . . . . . _ _ _ _
595
· · - - - - · - 301
Wilder, Ellwood C.-Appointed Grand Bible Bearer
Willoughby, W. C., Grand Marshal of Nevada Greeted by Grand Master........_ 53

